#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
#### Clans			
--Assamite
	*The childer of Haqim, known as Assamites to therest of the Kindred, are a silent knife in the dark, anorder of bloodthirsty assassins who participate in thesecret wars of the undead by operating as killers forhire. Outside the purview of the Sects, the Assamitesare true independents and mercenaries, hiring out towhoever can pay their blood-price and ungoverned bythe will of Prince or Priscus. By the time a mark realizesthat he’s being hunted by an Assamite, it’s often far toolate. Needless to say, this makes the Assamites bothfeared and reviled by many of the other Clans.In truth, the Assamites are more than simple thugsand killers. Theirs is a complex but insular Clan predicated upon the three principles of wisdom, sorcery, anddiablerie. Most Assamites that other vampires encounterare members of the warrior caste, however, so Kindredsociety has painted them all with that brush. For theirpart, the Assassins have done nothing to stop this misunderstanding. If it helps them acquire contracts and it occludes the true nature of their Clan, the better for them. Long ago, the Assamites were brought to heel by apowerful curse to curb their bloodlust, levied by theTremere at the behest of the Camarilla. They cannottaste the vitae of vampires without it causing themharm. In their ongoing quest to lower their Generationand bring themselves closer to their holy figure, Haqim(whom some outside scholars claim was of the SecondGeneration, while others insist he was a judge appointed by the other Antediluvians), the Assamites must refine the blood of Kindred into an alchemical solution.Were it not for this mystical yoke, the Assamites wouldsurely be unchecked on a crusade of unholy diablerie.
	Nickname:Assassins
	Background:Those Embraced into Clan Assamite tendto fall into two distinct types: The “provincial” members ofthe Clan fit whatever their locality is, and can blend seamlessly in with the people around them. The higher-profile“jet-setters” transcend cultures, bolstered by their abilityto handle interpersonal and intellectual challenges.
	Sect:For the most part, the Assamites tend to beindependent, letting the Sects hire them to operate ontheir own terms. That said, some Assamites believe anallegiance with the Camarilla or the Sabbat would allow the entire Clan to stand more strongly.
	Haven:Assamites often share communal havenswith others of their local cell, remote structures thatallow the Assassins to watch the larger domain from adistance. These havens are generally well appointed,but not so lavish that the whole place can’t be movedon short notice. Individual Assamites also tend to keeppersonal hideouts of a much more humble nature, forwhen they need a place to lay low.
	Appearance:Older Assamites often come from Middle Eastern and North African cultures, though more andmore young Assamites come from a wider demographic. In traditionalenvironments, the Assamites prefer garbappropriate to religious or Clan custom.When in public, however, Assamites wearwhatever the localsdo, allowing them tofulfill their contractswithout anyone noticing anythingamiss. An Assamite’s skin grows darker with age (as opposed to other vampires, whose skin gets paler); particularly ancientAssamites are almost ebony in complexion.
	Character Creation:Physical Attributes tend to beprimary, with some Assamites favoring Social Attributes to help them get close to their prey. Talents and Skills are equally favored, but Knowledges may helpthe wise Assamite in a pinch. Few Assassins cultivateextensive Backgrounds, and instead specialize in anarray of Disciplines that heighten their competence.The most accomplished Assamites follow the Clan’sunique Path of Enlightenment, and those who don’toften have to spend a great deal of effort maintainingtheir Virtues and Humanity.
	Clan Disciplines: Celerity, Obfuscate, Quietus
	Weaknesses:Due to the Tremere blood-curse,should an Assamite consume the blood of anotherKindred, she suffers one automatic level of unsoakable lethal damage per blood point imbibed. Diablerieattempts result in automatic aggravated damage, onehealth level per point of permanent Willpower the victim possesses; the would-be diablerist gains no benefits(including Generation reduction) if he survives theprocess. In addition, Assamites must tithe some of theprofits from their contracts to their sires or superiors(generally around 10 percent of all such earnings).
	Organization:An insular, hierarchical organization shapesmuch of Assamite custom. “The Old Man on the Mountain”— the master assassin who makes his haven in the mountain fortress of Alamut — is the ultimate authority, and theClan heeds the orders that trickle down to them with a mix of reverence and terror. Individual and local cells of Assamites known as falaqi frequently have license to act withautonomy, but “turncoats” against the higher cause are rare.

--Brujah
	*The legacy of the Brujah is one of halcyon greatness marred by their own fiery natures. Theirs was the glory of ancient Carthage, but Ventrue treachery in ancientRome brought the dream to an end. Since then, theBrujah have borne a grudge.Tonight, the Brujahare rebels andprovocateurs,bat-swinginghooligans and agents of change in a society long crippled by stasis. Asrebels, it’s in their nature to challenge the status quo —though sometimes, without adequate opposition, theyembody the status quo themselves. It works out fine,because there’s always a hot-blooded Brujah waiting inthe wings to bring down an uppity Clanmate growntoo comfortable in the role of rebel-turned-dictator.More so than any other Clan, the Brujah still feel theflames of the passions that once inspired them as mortals.Clan Brujah loves a cause and is quick to act on a stirringspeech, accusation of injustice, or a call to arms. Thisconnection to passion can be a blessing, but inspirationcan also yield to the madness and hunger of the Beast.No wise Prince turns his back on the Brujah, and rareis the Brujah who would allow herself to be manipulatedor pandered to. A Brujah is her own master, first andforemost, and those who would bring her to heel face aterrible task. A Brujah who thinks she’s getting theshort end of the stick will tear an enemy to ribbonsfirst and maybe remember to ask questions later, nomatter if he’s a Primogen or a mortal authority.Some Kindred historians claim that the Brujahhave parlayed their ancient betrayal into a roleas agitators against the very order that they helpsupport. Others claim the Brujah have long sincesubmitted to the will of that same order, beinglittle more than loyal opposition rendered impotent. Most Brujah don’t care either way, as longas someone needs a good ass-kicking and theycan be the ones to deliver it.
	Nickname:Rabble
	Background:As creatures of passion, Brujah oftenEmbrace without really thinking much about it, andtheir childer tend to be a disparate lot. Sometimes, theRabble Embrace those who share a similar outlook orenthusiasm for a cause as the prospective sire. Othertimes, they inflict the Embrace on those of opposite ideology, cursing a rival with vampirism as punishment.
	Sect:For all its rebellion, ClanBrujah generally considers itself a member of the Camarilla. Young Rabble sometimeslook to thewildness ofthe Sabbat,but elders assert that the Ivory Tower provides a fine structureagainst which to rage.
	Haven:Brujah may feel kinship to a city, but they rarely develop such ties to individual locations. Thus, at anygiven time, a Brujah probably has a half-dozen or morehideouts, safehouses, and flats available. These are oftenshabby and ill-kept until the Brujah needs them. Brujahhavens might also have mortals who follow the Brujah’sideology or his cult of personality. This works out fine: Itnever hurts to have a spare vessel in an emergency.
	Appearance:Many Brujah affect styles and mannerisms that reflect an attitude of rebellion. Multicoloredhair, shaven heads, spikes, rivets, fetish gear, and t-shirtswith bold slogans might appeal to a Brujah. While notevery Brujah wears the “uniform,” the Rabble often enjoyadorning themselves in outfits intended to provoke. Someyoung Brujah prefer mobile devices as their tools of resistance, and can summon a riot at the touch of a screen.
	Character Creation:Brujah are usually — thoughnot exclusively — drawn from mortals with violentor ungovernable personalities. Their Natures and Demeanors are often similar, as Brujah have little use forguile. They lean toward physical Attributes, with Social and Mental about equal afterwards. Many favorSkills and Talents, but most respect the Knowledgesthat make them more than just thugs. Contacts, Allies,and Herd are common Backgrounds.
	Clan Disciplines: Celerity, Potence, Presence
	Weaknesses:The same passions that inspire Brujah to greatness or depravity, left unchecked, can sendthem into incandescent rages: The difficulties of rollsto resist or guide frenzy (p. 298) are two higher thannormal. Additionally, a Brujah may never spend Willpower to avoid frenzy, though he may spend a point ofWillpower to end a frenzy that has already begun.
	Organization:Certain causes rise and fall in Brujahfashion, but some of the more tenured are those who callthemselves Idealists and Iconoclasts. Iconoclasts want to tear it all down, while Idealists enjoy solving problemsthrough theory. This last harkens somewhat to the classical roots of the Brujah as philosopher-kings, and most Idealists are among the ranks of Brujah ancillae and elders.

--Followers of Set
	*Addiction, debasement, corruption, and desperationstrike fear into many Kindred who worry that theirswill become an unlife of ruin, but to the Followers ofSet, these and more are the tools ofthe trade. Pimps, pushers, andpriests, the Setites cater tothe needs of the desperate,and convert them to a nihilistic cause in doingso. Whether one needsflesh, money, drugs, ordark secrets, the Followers of Set can provide it, and whenthey do so, they all but guarantee themselves a return visit fromthose who seek them.The Followers of Set are as much a chthonic religion as they are a Clan, though the faith includes theClan. Its mythology is complex and convoluted, an impenetrable pantheon of god-monsters. At the apex ofthis worship stands a syncretism of the Egyptian Lordof the Underworld Set and the Greek hydra Typhon,as much spiritual guardians of secret places as they arethe “liberators” of other’s souls. To outsiders, this is allblasphemous religious affectation, but to devout Setites, the cult and cause are real, and their dark lordworks his will through them.Needless to say, the politics of desperation and theplacation of evil gods place the Serpents on the outsideof Kindred society. The Setites are fine with this. TheKindred can often find themselves in need of whatthe Followers of Set purvey, and the extra “service”of secrecy is one the Setites are happy to provide —at a premium. The Setites offer a devil’s deal, buton their own terms. That way, when they collecttheir due and feed blood and souls into the maw ofthe Typhonic beast, all of its sacrifices have beengiven willingly.
	Nickname:Setites, Serpents
	Background:Prospective childer for the Followers ofSet often spend some time involved with a Setite cult,so they’re indoctrinated in the mysteries of the Clanbefore becoming one of its Kindred. They may comefrom any cultural origin, though many are outsiders,loners, or otherwise marginalized by society, which isoften what led them to the forbidden fruits offered bythe cult of Set in the first place.
	Sect:Externally, none of the Sects will havethe Followers of Set. Internally, the Setitessometimes describe themselves in terms ofboth Sect and Clan. They have no real impetus to join either the Camarilla or Sabbat,and their goals are different from those of theAnarchs.
	Haven:Where their hidden temples stand, the Setites make their havens, either individually or communally. These may be anything from “churches” withnever-before-heard-of denominations or they may beoutright cults that have to hide their existences. Thesecretive Serpents sometimes hide individual havensin places where other Kindred don’t often go, such asinsular ethnic neighborhoods, abandoned domains,“the rough part of town,” and so forth. Some Setitesalso haven in secret mystical places that have value tothe Clan, guarding them from outsiders.
	Appearance:Many older Setites hail from theNorth African and Mediterranean ethnicities native tothe Serpents’ historical territory, but they freely Embrace from among the mortals of their adopted homes.Some long-standing Setite temples are tied to locations where “Egyptian” Serpents might seem out ofplace, but where some aspect of serpent mythology is present, as in Mesoamerica or even far-flung Nordic locales, and thus draw their membership from local populations. Red hair is considered a mark of Set’s favor.
	Character Creation:Sires choose those who demonstrate acumen in Social and Mental Attributes, as theClan needs its proselytizers and its priests to be charismaticand quick-witted. Knowledges are almost always primary,though Talents may be so instead, especially among thoseSerpents engaged in dealings with others. Setites focuson Backgrounds that give influence over others whethersubtly or overtly, making Allies, Contacts, Influence, Resources, and sometimes Retainers popular.
	Clan Disciplines: Obfuscate, Presence, Serpentis
	Weaknesses:Given their origins in darkness, the Serpents react negatively to bright light: Add two healthlevels to damage caused by exposure to sunlight. Setitesalso lose one die from dice pools for actions taken inbright light (police spotlights, stage lights, flares, etc.).
	Organization:Setite organization is mostly local,with a single temple or network of cults representinga city’s Serpent presence. Setites in the cities rarelyscheme among each other, preferring to face outwardthreats in unity rather than the schismatic self-interestof the Sects. Whispers persist of a massive temple devoted to Set located somewhere in Africa, with a terrible Methuselah who claims to be the childe of Sethimself at the head. If this is true, then the Clan’shigher agenda probably originates here, but the Setitesthemselves remain silent on the topic.

--Gangrel
	*A glint of red eyes in the darkness, the scent of apredator’s musk, a flash of fangs, the sound of fleshtearing: These mark the presence of the Gangrel. Morethan any other Clan, the Gangrel resemble the beastsassociated with the legends of vampires: bats, wolves,and other creatures of darkness. Indeed, the Outlanders may develop the ability to transform themselvesinto these and other, more primal forms.The Gangrel have other characteristics in common withanimals as well. Many shun the elaborate social constructsof both Kindred and kine. A number of them prefer tomove alone or as a member of small packs or coteries. Mostare tough and, when pressed, ferocious. And when Gangrel succumb to the depredations of the Beast, they are leftwith some feature redolent of the animal kingdom.As a Clan, the Gangrel are wary and aloof. Most wouldprefer to spend their nights stalking prey or wilding onthe rooftops than minding Princely edicts or lobbyingfor recognition of domain. Theirs is a tense relationshipwith vampire society, and Outlanders are among themost frequent to turn Anarch or Autarkis. In somelocalities, the Gangrel have collectively abandonedmembership in any Sect — insofar as the Gangreltruly ever do anything collectively. The Jyhad seems less pronounced amongthe Gangrel than it is among other Clans, andthe Outlanders have little regard for the eternal conflict. Differences between Gangrel moreoften fall along the lines of domain and feeding rightsthan they do on generational mistrust, and the thingsthat concern young Outlanders are matters that concernGangrel ancillae and even elders. Still, one would behard-pressed to consider the relationship amongGangrel of different generations amicable,except in isolated sire-childe situations.The Beast is ever suspicious of thosewho would take sustenance from it.
	Nickname:Outlanders
	Background:Gangrel sire childer like they seek prey:after long hunts during which the prospective childedoesn’t even know she’s being followed. Creating afledgling means sharing limited resources, so each sirechilde relationship is unique and significant. Outlanders Embrace because they choose an individual, notout of whim or recklessness. Those who earn their attention are hardy, whether physically or emotionally.
	Sect:The Gangrel at least nominally belong tothe Camarilla, but the Clan has always had a vocal faction that spurns membership in any Sect. They claim that political games and social structures do nothingfor the primal Gangrel.
	Haven:Gangrel often lair where they can, takingrefuge when the sun threatens to rise. Those who domaintain permanent havens often lean toward the utilitarian: Everything from a cave to a covered alley to anillegal squat may serve as a Gangrel haven, usually withlittle demarcating them as any sort of personal territory(until it’s too late for the unfortunate interloper).
	Appearance:Personal presentation is often not highon the list of many Gangrel priorities, and a Gangrel’sappearance is often morea matter of circumstance than it is ofactive decision.The Clan’s weakness can contribute a great deal totheir appearance,as does an extended unlife in theplaces wherethey maketheir havens, which are frequently short of modern conveniences.
	Character Creation:Sufficiency is the Gangrel hallmark, and many have outsider or loner personalityarchetypes. Physical Attributes are far and away mostfrequent, as are Talents with a smattering of Skills andKnowledges. Many Gangrel focus on Disciplines rather than Backgrounds, preferring to rely on themselvesmore than others. Gangrel almost never have significant Resources, Influence, or Retainers.
	Clan Disciplines: Animalism, Fortitude, Protean
	Weaknesses:Every time a Gangrel frenzies, sheacquires a temporary animal characteristic (whichmay replace an existing temporary one). A patch offur, a brief torpor after feeding, or skittishness aroundcrowds — all of these may mar an Outlander after frenzy. Characteristics acquired in Gangrel frenzies neednot only be physical – they can be behavioral as well.Players should work with the Storyteller to determinewhat new animal trait is acquired (whether the frenzyinvolved the fight-or-flight impulse may be relevant).Over time, or in an exceptional situation, a particular animal feature may become permanent, with thenext frenzy adding a new feature. A good guideline isto require each frenzy-gained trait to have some effectgrounded in system terms (such as the temporary reduction of Social Attribute dots or a permanent loss ofHumanity), though some Storytellers may allow narrative-only traits that can shape the story.
	Organization:Regional groups of Gangrel occasionally assemble in convocations that draw from ethnic orcultural influences. These are informal affairs, gearedmore toward sharing information and revelry thanadvancing any cogent agenda. Aside from these infrequent gatherings, almost all Gangrel organization isvery local where it exists at all, from pairs of sire-andchilde through terrifying packs centered around oneaccomplished Outlander.

--Giovanni
	*Achieving prominence during the Venetian Renaissance, the Giovanni family built their fortune on therise of the middle class and the ready profit of banking and Mediterranean trade (and the criminal enterprise that came with it). However, with the family’srise came hubris, as its paterfamilias sought evermore power, and with that hubris came horror.With his earthly power at its apex, AugustusGiovanni turned to the arts of controllingthe dead, and in doing so, gained the Embrace from a forgotten Antediluvian.With a conclave of conspirators, theGiovanni plunged a now-forgottenClan into oblivion and built theirown legacy on its corpse. Since those first nights, the Giovanni have accepted no limits ontheir ambitions, despite oppositionfrom Kindred outside their Clanand a well-deserved reputation as“Devil Kindred.” They studied forbidden arts, becoming formidablein the nigrimancy that allowedthem power over the spirits ofthe departed, and degeneracyfollowed in the wake of uncleanritual. To this night, the Giovanni are known for the insularnature of their Clan and theincestuous practices by whichthey populate it. A few outsidefamilies and factions fall underGiovanni auspices, but the vastmajority of the Clan comes fromthe debased mortal family. Thefamily remains successful despiteall of their ghastly peccadilloes,and has amassed a vast wealththrough crime, politics, and thesecrets of the dead that keepsthem in their position of degraded opulence. In public view, the Giovanni make a great show of humility and respect. Part of this gentility is a habit of centuries, still in place from when the other Clans huntedthe usurping Necromancers (and to preserve their hardwon neutrality from the conflict between the Camarillaand the Sabbat). Another part of it is the velvetglove hiding the iron fist of their nature, remarkable for forcing ghosts, minds, and bodies aliketo bow to their needs. To hear the Giovannitell it, Princes and Archbishops alike owethem favors, and anyone with somethingto offer may earn their patronage. For the most part, the Giovanni participate little in the Jyhad,pursuing their own agenda ofcultivating wealth and building afoundation of power in the landsbeyond the veil of death. Outsidersrarely comprehend the goals of theNecromancers, but only the mosttrusted of the Giovanni knowthat the Clan wants to plungethe world into a state where thedead and the living commingle.And with their mastery of Necromancy, the Giovanni wouldbe positioned to rule it all.
	Nickname:Necromancers
	Background:Giovanni of the main family branchhave usually spent some amount of time as a ghoul in apractice known as the Proxy Kiss. During this time, theKindred-to-be learns about the treacherous and jealousreality of the vampire family. She learns ambition and anunhealthy dose of duplicity, in addition to the family history and customs. Giovanni rarely see much of the outsideworld on their own terms during the Proxy Kiss period,and often become insular and alienated, while at the sametime eager to stand out among the other family ghouls.
	Sect:''
	Haven:The family wealthof the Giovanni is evident in their havens, which may take the form of villas or lavishestates. The Necromancers often have valuables investedin their havens as well, such as galleries of fine art or displays of jewelry. Many Giovanni also maintain secondary havens, where they may have elaborate necromanticcrypts or just flats where they can lie low if necessary.
	Appearance:Outwardly, Giovanni dress with subtlety andtaste. Much of the Clan comesfrom the original mortal family,and have not only olive Italiancomplexions, but some amountof inherited family features.Those outside the immediatefamily often appear “of a type,”and in the traditional garb oftheir regional family branch.
	Character Creation:Giovanni vampires often haveoutgoing, professional Demeanors that hide unpleasantNatures warped in their upbringing. Social or MentalAttributes are usually primary, though some of the “soldiers” of the family prefer Physical Attributes. Emphasislikewise usually falls on primary Knowledges or Talents,depending on proclivity. A split in the Clan sees thosewho favor the practicality of Backgrounds (particularlythose tied to wealth and exerting influence) diverge fromthose who prefer the forbidden puissance of Disciplines.Few Giovanni could be described as well-rounded.
	Clan Disciplines: Dominate, Necromancy, Potence
	Weaknesses:The Kiss of a Giovanni vampire causesexcruciating pain in mortal vessels who receive it. Ifthe Giovanni isn’t careful, her vessel may die of shockand agony before being wholly exsanguinated. When aGiovanni feeds upon a mortal, she does twice as muchdamage as the Kiss of another vampire would inflict. Forexample, if a Giovanni takes one point of blood from amortal vessel, that victim would suffer two health levels of damage. As a result, they tend to use blood banksand other means of feeding that don’t fight as much.
	Organization:Like few other Clans, the Necromancershave a top-down organization where policy is made by a(presumed) still-active Clan progenitor, Augustus. Thefamily maintains an enormous palazzo known as the Mausoleum in Venice, where elders and fledglings alike danceto the whims of their ancient puppetmasters. Clan structure is itself familial, with the added complications thatdegeneracy and vampirism offer. Incest, ancestor worship, necrophilia, cults of guilt, and bizarre relationshipsin which fathers and grandmothers are their own issue’schilder make a mire of the Clan and family, and fracturemany Giovanni long before they become Kindred.

--Lasombra
	*To the mind of a Lasombra, it is better to reign inhell than to serve in heaven. Fear, frenzy, the powerto determine whether another lives or dies: these areat the root of the power that the Lasombra hold dear.Whereas other vampires try vainly to hold the Beast atbay or give themselves wholly to it, the Lasombra beatthe Beast into submission,invoking it when itsuits them but leaving it trapped insidewhen they wish togovern themselves.It is with thesepredilections thatthe Lasombra stylethemselves a “darknobility,” an aristocracy of the night thatchose the supremacyof the Cainites overveneration of theMasquerade. Their regard for such ideas as redemption and salvationare cynical at best, and much of the pomp that shapedthe Clan’s pre-Sabbat outlook remains only with asense of blackest irony or open mockery. The grandeurand rituals of the Church and aristocracy remain dearto the Lasombra, however, and the Clan was instrumental not only in establishing many of the rituals ofthe Sabbat, but in the institutions that keep it fromdescending into chaos each night.Whether they see themselves as God’s instrumentsor as outcasts from His creation, the Lasombra believethey have a duty (whether to Sect, Clan, pack, or evenjust themselves), and obligation to their responsibilitiesgives them a wicked sense of purpose. Even a Lasombrashovelhead may consider himself a cut above the rest; asurprising number of Lasombra mass Embraces survive,perhaps owing to the intervention of their sires.While the night belongs to all Kindred, the Lasombra are truly born to darkness, to the degree that theirvery Clan name reveals their tie to shadow. Theirs isthe Discipline of Obtenebration, and it allows themto wield the stuff of shadow and darkness, and evenreach beyond the darkness of the physical world intothe abyss that lies beyond.
	Nickname:Keepers (as in “my brother’s…”)
	Background:Prospective sires of Clan Lasombraseek both erudition and ambition in their potentialchilder. As such, many Lasombra come from professional backgrounds, and display outgoing and evenaggressive personalities. Merit in their sires’ eyes takesfledgling Lasombra far, and the Keepers do not hesitateto cull their ranks of flawed, lazy, or boorish childer.
	Sect:The Sabbat would be very different withoutthe influence of the Lasombra, and they remain itsmost prominent Clan. Young Lasombra often makeauspicious starts as Sabbat Ducti or Priests, leadingtheir fellows by charging into the fray or demonstrating mastery of the Beast.
	Haven:The obligation of their leadership leads manyyoung Lasombra to maintain communal havens with other members of their pack. Wealthier Keepers andthose who predate the Sect often maintain their ownhavens, whether sinister penthouse suites or sprawlingOld World villas.
	Appearance:The Lasombra are frequently attractive.Whether through the Spanish, Italian, and Moorishstock associated with the Clan, or due to more cosmopolitan modern backgrounds, the Keepers cut a striking figure. Their dress is often conservative or religious,drawing on years of ceremony and faithful ritual. Rareis the Lasombra who cannot at least manipulate shadows to affect a dramatic entrance or enigmatic pose.
	Character Creation:Lasombra often have disparate Natures and Demeanors. Mental or Social Attributesare equally likely to be primary. Attributes tend to benarrow and specialized, showing individual expertise.Keepers cultivate Backgrounds of all types similarlyin (initially) low quantities, to better diversify themselves.
	Clan Disciplines: Dominate, Obtenebration, Potence
	Weaknesses:Lasombra vampires cast no reflections.Whether in a mirror, in a body of water, on a polishedsurface, or in the rear-view of a taxicab, the image ofthe Keeper does not reflect.
	Organization:For the Lasombra, the nights of higharistocracy never faded, and the titles and offices amodern onlooker might associate with history still carry great weight among the Keepers. A complex systemof patronage, mentorship, and lineage characterizesthe Clan, similar to the courts and churches of centuries gone by. Childer benefit greatly from esteemedsires and vice versa, while acts that confer Sect or Clanstatus may also elevate a Lasombra’s peers, so long asshe associates her success with her fellows.

--Malkavian
	*Clan Malkavian is twice damned: once by the curseof being Kindred, and again by the turmoil that disturbs their hearts and minds. Upon the Embrace, every Malkavian is afflicted with an insurmountableinsanity that fractures her outlook for every nightthereafter, making her unlife one of madness.Some consider this a form of oracular insight,while others simply consider them dangerous.Make no mistake: Malkavian insanity is apainful, alienating phenomenon, but it occasionally provides the Lunatics with bursts of insight or heretofore unknown perspective. Madnessfor the Malkavians may take the form of any clinicalform of insanity, or it may be a hyperacuity of sensesothers don’t know they have; a supernatural puppeteer pulling the Malkavian’s strings, or a sense thatthe Malkavian is somehow ahead of evolutionaryschedule. A Malkavian may believe herself tobe an idea given physical form or an avatar ofsome concept the World of Darkness has yetto encounter. She may be a nonstop raveningpsychopath, or may be a mostly lucid individual sometimes rendered catatonic by fear ofan impending cosmic cataclysm.Their precarious stability makes it hard for otherKindred (or, indeed, any vessels with whom they maymeet) to interact with Malkavians. The Clan sometimes indulges in elaborate, terrifying, and dangerous“pranks” which do little to endear them to other vampires. These incidents are nominally meant to educatethe target, but the lesson can often be lost between thevampire’s scramble for safety and the inability to parsethe Malkavian’s inner logic. Common pranks might beto replace a vain Toreador’s haven door with a guillotine or to redistribute a Brujah elder’s wealth while he’sat Elysium, or it might take the form of giving a hunterthe location where the Nosferatu gather. Kindred bothdread and resent the word “prank” almost as much asthey do the Lunatics themselves.
	Nickname:Lunatics
	Background:Malkavians Embrace with all the capriceone would assume from them. Lunatic childer come fromall economic and cultural strata, though most havesome sort of hard-luck story or black secret behindthem that caused their sire to take note. Truly damaged Malkavians who are unaware of the meaningsof their actions may not even be aware that theyhave sired childer, which makes for very difficultentry into Kindred society for these castoffs, manyof whom end up among the Caitiff.
	Sect:In their moments of lucidity, the Malkavians offer their unorthodox perspectives and Devil’s advocacy tothe Camarilla, offering their visions and unique insightsto cut through the webs of deceit. Princes and Primogentolerate the Lunatics to varying degrees, but the Clan as awhole has always been a supporter of the Ivory Tower.
	Haven:Consistency is rare among Malkavians.Quite simply, they establish havens where they thinkto, where they can, and where they can recall. A significant number of Malkavians have literally no home,spending each night where exhaustion or the sun’s raysleave them. Others may permanently have the presidential suite in a posh hotel, a squat in the Barrens,the dispensary at a county jail, or a broom closet in ahistorical landmark.
	Appearance:While Malkavians can come from anyculture, the madness following the Embrace tends tolead them to extremes of self-presentation. Malkaviansmay appear disheveled, injured, or simply dirty. Theycould still be wearing the same clothes from the nightof their Embrace or they may have stolen clothes froma laundromat or a department store during a fit of confusion or fugue. Of course, Malkavians are just as likely to be meticulous and exacting in their appearance, trying obsessively to appear as normal as possible.
	Character Creation:Loner, outsider, and deviantconcepts and archetypes prevail among the Malkavians, as do Mental Attributes (with an occasionalSocial-primary madman or Physical-primary maniachiding among the ranks). Talents and Knowledgesare likely most popular among Malkavians. Backgroundstend to be either broad and shallow or few and deep, representing the way the way the Malkavian caroms throughunlife. Virtues, Humanity, and Paths often tumble quickly, usually in the wake of Willpower doing the same.
	Clan Disciplines: Auspex, Dementation, Obfuscate
	Weaknesses:All members of Clan Malkavian suffer froma permanent, incurable derangement. They may acquire andrecover from other derangements, and may spend Willpowerto ameliorate the effects of the derangement for a scene, butthey can never recover from their original derangement.
	Organization:Rumor is more widespread than truth withregard to Malkavian organization, and any number of harrowing tales describe the function of the Clan. Some saythe Lunatics all share a hive consciousness; others claimthat this is in fact the lingering consciousness of the Clan’sprogenitor Malkav. Still others claim that a network ofmadness puts all Malkavians in contact with one another and is the cause of their crippling insanity. If nothingelse, the Malkavians prove inscrutable and uncanny. One night, each of them frenzies when they see one another,while the next night, they all converge at the same timeat the Sheriff’s haven and accuse him of harboring Sabbatspies. Who can say how the “disease of information” or thecustoms of the Clan travel among them?

--Nosferatu
	*Those who doubt that the Embrace is a curse needlook no further than the Nosferatu. Twisted by themark of Caine, members of Clan Nosferatu are warpedby the Embrace into hideous monsters. As such, theyskulk and keep to the shadows, and they often rouse theire and mockery of other Kindred for their nightmarish appearances. Still others are so terrified or revoltedby the Nosferatu that these warped Kindred have littlesocial interaction at all.To their credit, the Nosferatu cometo possess many of the whispered secrets of their reluctant fellows. The SewerRats enjoy a grudging respect asthe information-brokers of the Kindred, given their supernatural acumen at stealth and the fact that many Kindredwould rather ignore them than acknowledge them.Savvy Nosferatu exploit this for all it’s worth, turningthe hypocrisy of other vampires to their own profit.On the whole, the Nosferatu condition is lonely andalienating. How they react to the Curse of Caine varies with their outlook and mental stamina, but it’s hardto be an object of utter revulsion and not let it shapeone’s disposition toward one’s “Kindred” in some way.Some of the Sewer Rats are cruel, as blighted on the inside as they are on the outside, while others are tragic,wretched creatures who have been cursed with eternaloutsider status through no choice of their own. A fewof the Sewer Rats even position themselves as prophetsor avatars of the Damned, physically embodying thehaunting riddle, “A Beast I am, lest a Beast I become.”
	Nickname:Sewer Rats
	Background:The Sewer Rats mostly fit into one oftwo categories. Some Nosferatu Embrace the damaged,flawed, outcast, or vile, feeling some degree of kinshipwith them. Other Embrace spitefully, dragging thebeautiful or privileged into an immortal hell of disfigurement and monstrosity.
	Sect:Clan Nosferatu belongs at least nominally tothe Camarilla, though many of its members becomeAutarkis or support the Anarchs rather than navigating the Ivory Tower’s vicious social labyrinth. Someeven contend that the Nosferatu need the Camarilla,because without they have no buyers in their economyof secrets.
	Haven:Nosferatu Kindred often make their havensfar from the scorn and spite of other vampires. Whether they construct warrens in the sewers suggested by theirnickname or they sculpt a sprawling nightmare-nest inthe spire of a condemned church, Sewer Rats value secrecy and distance from rivals in their havens. Nosferatu of humbler means may well squat in an abandonedtenement or a disused alley. So long as it’s away fromother Kindred, it’s a good haven.
	Appearance:Physical horror is the lot of the Nosferatu, and their unsettling deformations are countless.No two Nosferatu share the exact same malformation, and the Clan is a freakshow of snarled limbs,fanged protrusions, hellish countenances, serpentine spines, ruined faces, spasmodic appendages, andeven features not usually seen on the mortal stockfrom which the Nosferatu are drawn. The SewerRats often hide these disfigurements under shapeless robes and rags, but some exult in the discomforttheir presence causes, and don’t bother disguisingthem. They may even emphasize them.
	Character Creation:Many Nosferatu come fromloner and outsider concepts, Natures, and Demeanors.They favor Physical and Mental Attributes over Social, and they tend to be balanced in their regard forTalents, Skills, and Knowledges. Nosferatu prefer tospecialize rather than generalize in Backgrounds, favoring those that carry favors and information like Allies,Contacts, Mentor, and even a bit of Influence.
	Clan Disciplines: Animalism, Obfuscate, Potence
	Weaknesses:All Nosferatu have an Appearancescore of zero, and they may never improve it. Cross itoff the character sheet. Dice pools that use the Appearance Trait are inherently difficult for these hideousKindred.
	Organization:Occasionally, a coterie of Nosferatubecomes a brood or cult, often based around a remotewarren. These can sprawl into vast “kingdoms” of Sewer Rats, who often exist without the knowledge of a domain’s Prince or Archbishop. The Nosferatu are amongthe Kindred most likely to share a communal haven, ifonly for protection in numbers. As well, Nosferatu shareinformation with each other via networks — whetherdigital, personal, occult, or something less definable —that defy the comprehension of other Kindred.

--Ravnos
	*The Ravnos move like the rumors that surroundthem. They are the thief in the night, the rakshachased by the wind, the nightmare-dream too fearfulto be real. Whether associated with the Romani folkof Europe or the grave-robbing ghûl of Western Asia,Kindred society burdens the Ravnos with prejudices offoulness, uncleanliness, and wickedness.With reputations like these, the Ravnos are considered outsiders even among those Kindred whodo not ally themselves with Sects. Many youngRavnos tend toward nomadic unlives, moving from one domain to the next or hidingon the fringes of established territorieswhere they can escape if local Kindredsentiment turns against them. This exacerbates their reputations as transients, gypsies, and vagrantscourges, but Ravnosvampires adapt well,thriving in theirmarginalized role. Infact, many choose tomake themselves intothe ravening terrorsthat other Kindred believe them to be. The Ravnos practice a unique Discipline known asChimerstry that convinces their enemies that they seethings that do not exist. Chimerstry does much to convince Kindred that the Ravnos trade in lies and misdirection, but it can also prove to be a Deceiver’s salvation and ease the vagaries of an outcast unlife. The more enlightened among the Ravnosfollow a Clan ideologyinspired by the cycle ofreincarnation espousedby many Indian faiths.Among some young andunprincipled members of theClan, however, this philosophy becomes a penchant forcapriciousness or an excusefor chaos. It is these latterKindred who give so manyRavnos a bad name, buteven the devout seem bizarre to many vampires.
	Nickname:Deceivers
	Background:The Ravnos arescattered and suspicious, and thosechilder who don’t have the tendency toward self-sufficiency don’t last long. In manycases, a Ravnos will either never sire, or sire for companionship or safety, with little concern for how wella childe will fare as a vampire. Ravnos rarely seek outchilder actively, instead drawing from those whosepaths they cross on any given night. As such, the hardluck drifter reputation tends to follow the Deceivers.
	Sect:Clan Ravnos often has a difficult time heeding the rigorous orderof many Camarilla cities, and hasno inherent love for the violence ofthe Sabbat. Thus, the Deceivers findthemselves independent for lack of amore suitable option.
	Haven:Many Ravnos take to theroad instead of establishing permanent havens, dwelling temporarily among itinerant communities,at roadside rest stops, or even in vehicles. When a Deceiver does putdown roots in a domain, his permanent haven is often away fromhigh-profile Kindred territories.Havens in ethnic ghettos, industrial outskirts, and isolated geography are safest and most easilycultivated for the Ravnos.
	Appearance:Young Ravnos often come from Eastern European Romanistock, with a relative paucity of “non-gypsy”gadje in the ranks. What few elders ofthe Clan may remain are presumed tocome from Indian or Middle Easternorigins. Given that the Clan is widelyspread and holds no traditional centraldomain, no consistent look can be saidto be predominant, and any mendicantKindred might be of Ravnos origin.
	Character Creation:Outsider and selfish Naturesare common among the Clan. Physical and Social Attributes predominate, as do Talents and Skills. SavvyRavnos develop a breadth of Backgrounds that cangive them an edge when they’re on the move or in atight spot, such as stashed Resources, defensible Domain, and a few Allies or Contacts.
	Clan Disciplines: Animalism, Chimerstry, Fortitude
	Weaknesses:A turbulent history makes the Ravnosslaves to their vices. Each Ravnos has a penchant forsome sort of vice — lying, cruelty, or theft, for example.When presented with the opportunity to engage in thatvice, the Ravnos must indulge it unless her player succeeds on a Self-Control or Instincts roll (difficulty 6).
	Organization:The Ravnos are a far-flung Clan, withlittle to unite them and an open acknowledgementthat each Deceiver looks after his own interests first.That said, Ravnos often like to make a great show ofClan camaraderie and cultural ritual, even though theyknow that promises made to one another are as fleeting as whispers on a night wind. Deceivers have beenknown to ally against common enemies such as tyrantPrinces or Sabbat pogroms, but these alliances quicklyfade once the threat no longer exists.

--Toreador
	*From the Toreador perspective, when the sun fades,darkness gives rise to an eternal and wondrous world.Everything is fraught with wonder and terror, low politics and sensual glories, the profound and the profane,and an undeniable undercurrent of the sanguinary.These Kindred are the Toreador, and they spendunlives ensconced in pleasure.Of course, for vampires of this disposition,it’s easy to become jaded and bitter. Morethan the other Clans, Toreador oftensuccumb to ennui, or fight the eventualboredom of unchanging immortalityby playing at rivalries. An excess ofstimulation turns them intoslaves to the sensations theyseek. The most debasedToreador can become truemonsters, sinking tounimaginable levels ofdepravity in order to feelanything at all.The Kindred of Clan Toreadoroften involve themselves greatly inthe world of mortals. They haveany number of reasons, whetherenjoying proximity to the blushof life, cultivating veritable cultsof doting followers, or influencingand following the trends that theirown kind simultaneously mock andvenerate. To hear the Toreador tellit, they are the Muses of a desperatemortal world, inspiring through their beauty or patronage. Toreador culture is a mixture of sybarites, dilettantes, and visionaries. SomeToreador, with echoes of mortal passion,Embrace lovers or “project” progeny whoseem to fly in the face of every Toreadorcustom. These either don’t last long orrise to great prominence as subversivesand individualists. Ideas, trends, and “the next great thing” spread through the Clan, andother Kindred often look to the Toreador to guidethem. The Degenerates know this, and many becomeHarpies, Princes, and other key figures in vampiric society.
	Nickname:Degenerates
	Background:Many Toreador hail from high-societyor “bohemian” backgrounds. Indeed, many are themselves artists or influential among local art scenes orother subcultures. Actors, singers, musicians, sculptors,poets, playwrights, authors, and creative folk of anystripe may well find a home in the Clan, as do thosewho serve as patrons to (or travel in the entourages of)those artistic types.
	Sect:The Camarilla would not have survived in the nights following the Anarch Revolt without substantial participationfrom the Toreador, and they remain amongits most ardent supporters.
	Haven:The Degeneratesspare no expense in appointing their havens in luxury,often with many originalworks of art. It is a point ofpride among Toreador tohave an unconventional(and thus memorable)haven with moderncomforts; thus, manyhave striking lofts andpenthouses, while thebolder among them renovate or repurpose everything from abandonedaquariums or deconsecrated churches to rooftop gardens or converted warehouse-galleries in fashion-forward neighborhoods. Share a communal haven? Howdéclassé.
	Appearance:Almost to the last, theyare attractive in some way, whetherthe traditional beauty of a runway model or the dangerous allure of something more predatory.The Degenerates augment theirphysical beauty with a sense ofpersonal style, which may takethe form of expensive couture, avant-garde street wear,or classical fashions designedto emphasize their appealing qualities. This isn’t to saythat ugly Toreador don’t exist.Indeed, those gifted with lessphysical beauty often go thatmuch further with their choiceof accoutrements.
	Character Creation:Social attributes are almost always primary, with an even split among Talents, Skills,and Knowledges depending on how the Toreadordistinguishes herself. Toreador also love to cultivateBackgrounds. Allies, Contacts, Resources, Domain,Haven, Mentors, Resources, Retainers — all of thesehave great value among Toreador. Wise Toreador maychoose to develop their Virtues, Humanity, Path, orWillpower, because with an unlife of degeneracy, theymust frequently attend to the ugly business of bringingthe Beast to heel.
	Clan Disciplines: Auspex, Celerity, Presence
	Weaknesses:When a Toreador experiences something truly remarkable — a person, an objet d’art, alovely sunrise — the player must make a Self-Controlor Instincts roll (difficulty 6). Failure means that theKindred finds herself enthralled by the experience. Thedazzled Toreador cannot act for the duration of thescene aside from commenting on or continuing theirinvolvement with whatever has captured their attention. If the experience no longer affects her (whetherby moving, being destroyed, or whatever is appropriate to the situation), the captivation ends. EnrapturedToreador may not even defend themselves if attacked,though being wounded allows them to make anotherSelf-Control or Instincts roll.
	Organization:Clan Toreador is cliquish and parochial in its local domains, but very rarely on a level thataffects Clan-wide custom. Certain Toreador (and a fewoutside the Clan) sometimes use the terms “artiste” and “poseur” when describing individual Toreador,often derisively, to describe whether the Degeneratein question is one who is seen as creative or simply afollower of established trends, but these are certainlyinformal distinctions.

--Tremere
	*In nights long lost to the passage of time, the Tremere existed, though they were something else. Those earlyTremere then made a bargain — or wrought a spell,or any number of other harrowing methods attributedto the Clan — that changed them from what they hadbeen into the vampires they are tonight. Some claimthey stole the Curse of Caine from a torpid Antediluvian, or that they concocted the flawed immortality of the Kindred from the stolen vitae of other vampires. Such mysterious origins, which some describe astreacherous or even blasphemous, haunt the Tremere,as the other Clans look upon them with mistrust andsuspicion. The history — and, indeed, the modernlegacy — of the Tremere is one marked by Clan war,centuries-old grudges, and the stain of unwholesomemysteries long left unsolved. Tonight, Clan Tremere is a Clan shapedby its practice of blood sorcery. A flexible Discipline, Thaumaturgy is heavily entrenched within the Tremere,and they maintain cultic havensknown as chantries to studyits uses and share secretsamong each other. Tothe Tremere, blood isboth sustenance and thesource of mystical power;they gather in their witchhouses to further their understanding ofthe vitae that is such a focal point of theirunlives.Beyond the practice of Thaumaturgy itself,the Warlocks are known for their close-knit hierarchy. They hail from the Old World, with an established power base in Vienna to which all membersof the Clan answer to some degree. Although theymay be one of the youngest Clans — in the termswith which deathless creatures like vampires measuretime — they are as adept at the Jyhad as any Kindred.Beset by enemies who call them usurpers and backedby allies who may or may not defend the alliances theyforce, the Tremere have evolved to be self-sufficient.Indeed, many who eye them warily think they possess too great an edge, with their flexible Disciplineand protective Clan and chantry structure, and moveagainst them both secretly and overtly.
	Nickname:Warlocks
	Background:The Tremere draw from a fairly narrowpool of potential acolytes. Those who have an awareness of the supernatural, who are driven to succeed,who seek answers that elude less inquisitive individuals, yet who also have the discipline to heed the edictsof the hierarchy make good Tremere. This isn’t to saythat individualists don’t have room in the Clan; rather,those who go their own way may well find themselvesleading a chantry — or greeting the sun if their interests don’t align with those of the pyramid.
	Sect:Clan Tremere considers itself one of the pillars of the Camarilla. It is rumored that they once performeda ritual that all but eradicated those ofthe Clan not loyal to the IvoryTower (and thus the Tremere’spyramidal hierarchy).
	Haven:Many Tremere rely on a central chantry theClan maintains in cities where it has a notable presence. More solitary Warlocks develop private havens,with all of the trappings one might expect from an occult scholar, from libraries to alchemical laboratories tomoonlit balcony observatories and even more sinisteroubliettes where vivisected “research subjects” bleedaccording to experimental Tremere-controlled stimuli.
	Appearance:Tremere oftenhave two distinct presentations: a traditional and severe public aspect and amuch more eldritch mienbetter suited to wielding theirblood sorceries. When outin public or at Kindredevents, the Tremere favor conservative suits anddresses and muted tones.When in their chantriesor convening with others of their Clan,they often prefer robesdecorated with subtle occult symbols or garbwith various folds andpockets for their bizarreritual ingredients.
	Character Creation:Mental Attributes and Knowledges are prominent among the Tremere. Many havehigh Courage and Willpower, but are somewhat lackingin Conscience or Conviction. They often favor Backgrounds that heighten their relationship to the Clan, likeMentor, Status, and Retainers (whom an accomplishedWarlock may craft from otherwise inert components).
	Clan Disciplines: Auspex, Dominate, Thaumaturgy
	Weaknesses:Tremere dependency on blood is evenmore pronounced than that of other Kindred. It takesonly two draughts of another vampire’s blood for aTremere to become blood bound instead of the normalthree — the first drink counts as if the Tremere had takentwo drinks. (For more information on the blood bond, seep. 286). The elders of the Clan are well aware of this, andseek to impart loyalty to the Clan by forcing all neonateWarlocks to drink of the (transubstantiated) blood of theseven Tremere elders soon after their Embrace.
	Organization:The hallmark of Clan Tremere is “the pyramid,” the rigid hierarchy that governs the Clanand makes it the most organized of all the Kindredlineages. With many levels of membership, internalfactions, and circles of mystery, the Tremere hierarchypresents a unified face to those outside the Clan, andis almost as unified behind the scenes. Still, the pyramid inculcates more than its share of paranoia, as bothQuote: When the world refusesto give, he who makes himself amaster of the world may still take. rogue Warlocks and a competitive environment of academic occultism pits each acolyte against her peers tothe greater accomplishment of the Clan.

--Tzimisce
	*A blood moon casts a crimson light over the landbeyond the forest and something fearsome howls its agony into the night. The Tzimisce call these lands theirancestral home. Since time out of mind the Fiendshave been masters and lords of the domains of much ofEastern Europe. But theirs is a proud, selfish Clan forwhich tradition goes only so far despite their aristocratic origins. In fact, the Clan claims to have destroyedits Antediluvian, and in the wake of that momentousevent, helped establish the foundations of the Sabbat.Tzimisce practice a strange Discipline known as Vicissitude that allows them to twist the skin andbone of their victims. In many cases, theyrefine their fleshly arts by practicing uponthemselves, but they just as frequently useit upon their lackeys and retainers, turningtheir boyars and szlachta into monstrousthralls. Vicissitude itself is a much misunderstood Discipline, and debates overits origins occasionally plunge the Claninto vicious partisan rivalries. Clan Tzimisce is a Clan of extremes, andlong, cold nights spent in remote castles haveturned the Fiends’ perspectives both greatlyinward and outward. Mystics of the Clan studya philosophy of metamorphosis, seeking to discover what lies beyond the state of vampirism.An alien attitude of spiritual secularism characterizes many Tzimisce. Young members of the Clanoften find themselves detached from the historicalrole of the Fiends as terrifying landed lords, andthrow themselves wholly into a cause of their ownchoice, whether as Sabbat zealots, fleshcraftedhorrors, or transcendental koldun sorcerers.
	Nickname:Fiends
	Background:Elder Tzimisce, particularly those ofthe still-landed nobility in hoary old domains, mayhave family lines from which they Embrace, or theymay restrict their occasional siring to the terrified villages suffering in thrall beneath their estates. NewWorld and younger Tzimisce aren’t as discriminatingand are more practical. Indeed, many Tzimisce fledglings are little more than shock troops, Embraced andwarped to the limits of their frames to cause revulsionand revel in bloodshed until put down.
	Sect:The Tzimisce are longtime but largely detached members of the Sabbat. They were instrumental in the Sect’s nascence, and remain oneof its most numerous Clans.
	Haven:YoungTzimisceare often Sabbat Priests orDucti, and prefer to maintain communal havens with theirpacks. They encourage the pack to live in fearsome locations, such as beneath a hospital or morgue, or in the dankrecesses of a mausoleum. Elders of the Clan sometimeshave ancestral holdings in the Old World, and the imageof the vampire on the craggy mountain in a crumblingcastle owes much to Tzimisce lords. Rarely are these ancient holdings kept to any modern standards of comfort,but their lords are strangely hospitable to invited guests(and terribly intolerant of uninvited bores).
	Appearance:Given their ability to manipulate theirphysical appearance with Vicissitude, Tzimisce look however they want, and they often want to provoke orfrighten. Some prefer extreme modifications and experimentations with their bodies that leave them lookingonly vaguely humanoid. Others seek to redefine and eventranscend the limits of their forms, rebuilding themselves in the images ofangels, monsters,nightmares,and thingseven lessrecognizable.
	Character Creation:Few Tzimisce know moderation, and thus often favor Physical or Mental Attributes, usually with one extraordinarily high Trait.Knowledges are usually favored, though Skills are valued as well. Mentor, Allies, Domain, and Retainers areall quite appropriate to Tzimisce, as are narrow — almost overdeveloped — Disciplines. Their alien mindsets often lead them to follow Paths of Enlightenment.The ghastliness to which many Tzimisce are often exposed during their fledgling years sometimes results incomplicated derangements.
	Clan Disciplines: Animalism, Auspex, Vicissitude
	Weaknesses:The Tzimisce are inextricably tied totheir domains of origin, and must rest in the proximityof at least two handfuls of “native soil” — earth from aplace important to her as a mortal, such as the soil fromher birthplace or the graveyard where she underwenther Embrace. Each night spent without this physicalconnection to her land limits all of the Tzimisce’s dicepools to one-half, cumulatively, until she has only asingle die in her pool. The penalty remains until sherests for a full day amid her earth once more.
	Organization:The Fiends are, on the whole, mistrustful of other Kindred, especially others of their own Clan.As such, Tzimisce organization, such as it is, has a highregard for solitude. It is against their nature to be inclu- sive, and thus they have to work at being Sabbat (thoughthis is less difficult for younger Tzimisce of at least somewhat modern outlooks). This is also a key reason so manyof them undertake Paths of Enlightenment: to give theirxenophobia purpose, but also to provide some commonpoint of reference with others on the Path.

--Ventrue
	*Throughout history, while the other Clans have skulked about their petty intrigues, the Ventrue havecurried favor with Caesar, whispered into the ear ofCharlemagne, bankrolled the Age of Exploration, andeven swayed policy in the Holy See. Theirsis a legacy of rulership, from Ventrue fledglings starting theirclimb to the top to the mightiest elders whose influencespans the world. Long havethey played kingmaker in theshadows in the mortal world, andlong have they been the Clan ofKings among the Kindred.Other Clans, of course, find all thisinsufferably pompous at best,punishably tedious at worst.Someone has to lead,surely, but why does italways have to be somelong-winded, self-aggrandizing Ventrue?The Blue Bloods tryto bear the criticismof their lessers witha sense of noblesseoblige — everheavy hangs thathead that wearsthe crown — buteven the most munificent of Kindredleaders occasionally succumbsto tyranny and bloody rage. Tonight, the Ventrue are asynthesis of the modern andthe ancient, often in starkcontrast within the Clan andamong one another. Theirs ismoney of old, from the vaultsof Croesus, but their young manipulate stock markets and influence currencies. Elders may command armies or even wholegovernments, while neonates conjure their assets froma website or smartphone app. But for all their wealth,their distinguished history, and their status among theDamned, each and every Ventrue must still seek thatone resource that makes Kindred society egalitarian:precious blood.
	Nickname:Blue Bloods
	Background:Anyone who has “made something ofherself” may attract the attention of the Ventrue, whojudge their childer based on their prominence and success even before they start to groom them for the Embrace. Socialites, moneyed family, corporate wunderkinds,military leaders, and even untested newcomers who showgreat promise are keenly valued among the Blue Bloods.
	Sect:To hear the Ventrue tell it, the very ideaof the Camarilla originated with them. Every otherClan realized what an invaluable proposition it wasand flocked to their banner.
	Haven:A Ventrue’s havendisplays both her great power(read: wealth) and distinguishedtastes. Opulent, grandiose, evenbaroque — these may all apply toVentrue havens. They shun thegaudy displays of other Kindred,and their style tends less to theavant-garde than it does to theclassical and traditional. To theBlue Bloods, a well-maintained haven is an extension of oneself, and for someone tosee it in less than flawless state implies weakness, distraction, or even madness.
	Appearance:The Ventrue favor conservativeclothing and reserved presentation, unlessthey’re making a point about poweror money. Ventrue Princes maywell wear a circlet or carry ascepter as symbols of office,while young Blue Bloodsdisplay their own achievement via suits, ties, dresses,and accessories that are easily overlooked singularlybut add up to a stunning total effect. If a Ventrue has somuch as a hair out of place,it’s because he spent all nightrunning down the Society ofLeopold and demanding theSabbat menace retreat.
	Character Creation:Ventrue usually have directorialor outgoing personality archetypes. Members of ClanVentrue favor Social and Mental Attributes, but anyAbility category can be primary, reflecting a personal avenue of expertise. Backgrounds go both wide and deepfor the Ventrue, with almost every Blue Blood possessingsome amount of Resources, Status, and Herd (particularly the latter, given the Clan weakness). Elders in particular cultivate enviable havens and sprawling Domains.
	Clan Disciplines: Dominate, Fortitude, Presence
	Weaknesses:The Ventrue have rarified tastes, andthey find only one specific type of mortal blood palatable and vital for them. When a player creates a Ventrue character, he should decide with the Storytellerwhat specific type of blood suits the character, and thischoice is permanent. Blood of other types (even animals) simply offers the vampire no blood pool increase,no matter how much he consumes — he simply vomitsit back up. This refined palate may be very narrow orvery broad — say, the blood of younger sisters, or theblood of nude children. Vampiric blood is exempt fromthis restriction.
	Organization:The Clan-wide organization of theVentrue is localized and feudal, with various universally understood peerages, vassalages, oaths of fealty, andsworn boons taking the place of a rigid hierarchy. ManyVentrue style themselves as secret masters of their domains, consolidating power in longstanding networksand forming conspiracies. The Ventrue greatly valuepropriety and honor, and use many forms of addressand respect — their Laws of Decorum are complexand rigid, and could fill several volumes. Almost everyVentrue worth his status can recite his lineage at leastback to the elders, if not to the great Methuselahs.

--Baali
	*Even monsters have their bogeymen, and Kindredare no exception. Sires often attempt to keep neonatesfrom growing drunk on their own power as vampires,and one method for doing so is to explain to them whatsorts of twisted, evil power awaits them in the dark.The Baali are one such power. History — or legend, perhaps — claims that the childe of an Antediluvian made a pact with forces beyondhuman understanding in order to make war on thethirteen Clans. He took the name Baal-the-Destroyer,and he led his apostles against the Second City. Thebattle was terrible, and none caught in its wake werespared — Demon and Kindred alike perished. But theBaali and their unholy allies were routed and fled, andover the millennia, they faded from memory, to legend, to cautionary tale.The Baali do still exist, though. The Inquisitionweeded out the stupid and the careless, but left theclever and the patient. Some went into torpor, whileothers simply claimed membership in another Clanand begged for sanctuary. Now, in modern nights, thebloodline sees more concentrated activity than it hasfor centuries. Baali are explorers and seekers of secrets.They will do almost anything and sacrifice almost anyone to gain access to occult mysteries. They squanderthe wealth they have accumulated, they make dealsthey cannot possible hope to live up to, and theydo so with no apology and no attempt at excuse.They seem to know that they are in decline, andthat their bloodline is disappearing into the mistsof time.The bloodline has enemies, after all. Infernalists — those who call up and worship demons —are one of the very few beings that can be called“common enemies” by most of the denizens of theWorld of Darkness, Kindred and otherwise.Despite their small numbers and host of enemies, the Baali are dangerous. They are notFaustian bargainers, looking for comfort or evenknowledge. They do not wish to reign in Hell.They believe — they know — that the world isdoomed. The End Times are here, and every sacrifice they make, every murder they incite, is onemore chink in the dam holding back the deluge ofblood called Gehenna. If they have to die to breakthat dam, so be it. They die knowing that what theydo is what must be done.
	Nickname:Demons
	Background:The Baali value temperament aboveprofession. Teachers, defrocked priests, laborers, artists— all have joined the ranks of the Baali. The bloodlineeven breeds their own recruits, drawing from ghoul families raised over the years to produce offspring suckledon the unholy truths that the Baali recite as gospel.
	Sect:While individual Baali might pretend tomembership in the Camarilla or, less commonly, theSabbat, the bloodline as a whole claims no Sect.
	Haven:Baali tend to nest in places of antiquity. Libraries, universities, and stately homes attract the Demons. No matter where the Baali make their havens,though, the vampire’s very presence changes the place.Vermin creep in first, and no amount of effort can keepthem out.
	Appearance:Some neonates adorn themselves withSatanic paraphernalia. Some Baali dress in expensiveclothing, and some don’t bother. Some become so fixated that they neglect outer appearance. Older Baalisurround themselves with insects, rats, or other vermin.
	Character Creation:Mental Attributes, especiallyPerception, are usually primary. A Baali’s ability totempt and entice depend on his insight into what aperson truly wants. Social Attributes are also helpful,as the Baali need both to keep their identities a secretand convince others to open up to them.
	Clan Disciplines: Daimoinon, Obfuscate, Presence
	Weaknesses:Baali cannot bear to look upon or handle objects of any faith. Demons must avert their gazesfrom such objects, and touching them burns their flesh.In addition, should a Baali run afoul of True Faith, anyhindering or damage effects are doubled.
	Organization:The Baali gather in cabals numbering three to 13. Supposedly, these cabals answer to thebloodline’s founder. Any Demon is willing to die toprotect his cabal-mates; not out of any loyalty or affection for them, but because they’re all doomed anyway.

--Blood Brothers
	*The Blood Brothers are Kindred only in a veryloose sense. They are Sabbat shock troops, created byTremere and Tzimisce sorcerers in order for the Swordof Caine to have loyal soldiers that can still pass forhuman. The process of creation (for the Blood Brothers do not undergo an Embrace) washes away any individuality and personality, leaving only strong, savage,and near-mindless quasi-vampires. Blood Brothers are usually created in small groups ofthree to 10. These groups — called “circles” — becomefamily units connected by a kind of hive mind. TheSabbat also usually arranges for a Tzimisce to fleshcraftthe circle’s faces so that they are identical.The Frankensteins are a secret weapon for the Sabbat for several reasons. The Sabbat finds that whilethe loyalty of the Blood Brothers is beyond reproach,they don’t possess much in the way of creativity. Theyaren’t capable of trickery, clever tactics, or improvisation, and unless another vampire can direct them in the field in real time (whichisn’t impossible, given modern communication technology), they aren’t goodfor much beyond simple, direct missions.Second, they are difficult and risky tocreate. Creating a circle of Blood Brothers means killing half a dozen people.While the Sabbat doesn’t have aproblem with that in itself, a patternof disappearances can clue in mortalauthorities and Camarilla watchersalike that the Sword of Caine is up tosomething.Finally, the Blood Brothers are moreuseful as a surprise attack, and survivorsof those attacks run the risk of passing along knowledge of the Brothers’weaknesses. Creating too many, evenif it were possible or practical, wouldmean that eventually some Camarilla Tremere would figure out howto hurt them, or even how to reverse the magic that keeps themmindless, loyal, and useful. Somerumors say that this has alreadyhappened, but that the Tremerearen’t willing to share this knowledge with the Camarilla just yet.
	Nickname:Frankensteins
	Background:A Blood Brother’s mortal life is irrelevant. All that a person needs to do to become a BloodBrother is cross the wrong vampire’s path on the wrongnight. The Sabbat kills the target, removes his bodyhair, smooths over his features, and places him withfour or five others, and after that no trace of the manthat-was remains.
	Sect:The Blood Brothers belong to the Sabbat exclusively. A Blood Brother that comes through thecreation process with his individuality intact is destroyed.
	Haven:Blood Brothers stay in whatever haven isprovided for them by the Sabbat. As long as the circleis allowed to stay together, they don’t seem to caremuch about amenities.
	Appearance:A Blood Brother often looks identicalto the others in his circle, barring any burns or othermarks that he might have picked up in battle. Theyusually dress alike. The members of the circle grow agitated when they see each other as “different.”
	Character Creation:Blood Brothers prioritize Physical Attributes and Talents. Nature and Demeanor areusually the same; common choices are Conformist,Bravo, and Monster. Blood Brothers don’t usually havemuch in the way of Backgrounds apart from Generation and Mentor (their handler or creator).
	Clan Disciplines: Fortitude, Potence, Sanguinus
	Weaknesses:Blood Brothers cannot Embrace. If theyattempt it, the mortal simply dies.In addition, the Frankensteins literally feel each other’s pain. When a Blood Brother suffers a wound penalty, all members of the circle suffer the same penaltyfor the next turn. If two Blood Brothers are wounded,only the greater wound penalty applies. Blood Brothers do not continually suffer these penalties unless one ofthem suffers a new wound.
	Organization:The bloodline as a whole has no organization. It is loyal to the Sabbat, and the membersare otherwise loyal to their circles. The Blood Brotherstreat their handlers with complete loyalty, borderingon sycophancy. They treat other Sabbat Kindred withquiet deference.

--Daughters of Cacophony
	*The Daughters of Cacophony emerged as a distinctbloodline sometime during the 19th century. Beforethat, of course, there were always Kindred who sawmusic and song as a way to remain sane. Kindred scholars believe that the Daughters sprang from the blood ofeither Clan Toreador (for their passionate artistic pursuit) or Malkavian (given their propensity for causingmadness), but their supernatural powers point moretoward Clan Ventrue. It’s something of a moot point,as the “first” Daughter of Cacophonyis unknown. Regardless of theirorigins, the Sirens (as they arecalled in Kindred circles) areall singers, and the bloodline has always been predominantly female. Indeed, the Daughters of Cacophony base theirunlives on song. They wander through eternity withmusic always in their ears, and that makes them seemunfocused or flighty to other Kindred. This is one ofthe reasons, along with their rarity, that neither majorSect of vampires considers them a threat or much morethan a diversion. Individual Kindred, however, mighthave occasion to meet a Siren and wonder why it isthat those who spend too much time listening to theirsongs always seemed changed by the experience.
	Nickname:Sirens
	Background:The majority of Sirens were singersbefore the Embrace as well. Very occasionally, aDaughter Embraces someone who never developedher skill at singing, but these discover their talentsswiftly.The Daughters do not discriminate based on musical style. Jazz singer, nu-metal waif, opera diva, sultrylounge performer — any chanteuse might be a Siren.
	Sect:Sirens might fall in with whichever Sect holdspower locally. If asked, most Daughters either identifyas independents or claim membership in the Camarilla.
	Haven:Most Sirens have a quiet room with goodacoustics where they can sing without anyone listening. As much as most Daughters love performing, theywould prefer to be alone after the “show” ends, and sothe outward appearance of their havens isn’t as important as maintaining its secrecy.
	Appearance:A Siren might be a street musiciandressed in thrift-store chic, a pierced and tattooedpunk rocker, or a high-class entertainer with moneyand prestige. Apart from the fact that the Daughtersare largely female, their appearance varies widely.
	Character Creation:Social Attributes tend to beprimary. Expression and Performance are almost always high, and many have Fame. Sirens who diewith a following reap the benefit of their fans(Herd). Those less lucky often still have Contacts in show business.
	Clan Disciplines: Fortitude, Melpominee, Presence
	Weaknesses:The Daughters of Cacophonyhear music constantly. This might be a formof synesthesia, or it might be a hallucination. This constant song distracts the Daughters as much asit guides them. The difficulties of all their Perceptionrolls increase by two. No Daughter of Cacophony mayhave Alertness above 3 dots.
	Organization:Their numbers are too small for themto be truly organized, yet sometimes the Sirens act asone. Every so often, Sirens everywhere put on a performance on the same night. They don’t necessarily singthe same songs, but all of the waking Sirens sing atexactly the same time.

--Gargoyles
	*The Tremere unveiled the Gargoyle bloodline in AD 1167, and the Slaves have been a steady, if infrequent, part of Kindred society ever since. Gargoylesmight, in fact, be one reason that the Tremere weren’texterminated entirely in their first few centuries ofexistence. These odd quasi-Kindred often look liketheir stone namesakes — rocky-skinned, ugly,winged creatures that exist only to servetheir masters. Or such was the case for several hundred years. Recently,though, many of the Slaveshave thrown off theirchains and joined theCamarilla. Why theGargoyles chooseto ally themselves with theSect that alsoprotects theirformer masters is anyone’sguess. One ofthe going theoriesis that it’s a slap in the Warlocks’ collective face, but most Kindred don’t givethe Gargoyles credit for being that sophisticated. More likely, the Rockheads simplyrealize that in the Camarilla, their talents will be recognized and no one will try and order them around (atleast not directly).Gargoyles are created out of other Kindred, and thisugly fact makes their creation a seldom-discussedtopic in polite vampiric society. The Tremerestart with a Gangrel, Nosferatu, or Tzimiscevampire and perform obscene, bloody ritualsusing its blood, heart, and skin. Vitae fromanother vampire (from one of the other twoClans) is used to provoke a violent mutation,with the result that some Gargoyles look purelyhideous (Nosferatu base), some look feral (Gangrel base), and some look fleshy and sport bony protrusions (Tzimisce base). No Gargoyle can pass forhuman.The Tremere tolerate the Gargoyles’ presence in theCamarilla as best they can — it’s not as though theycan easily re-enslave them, after all. But relations are obviously strained. The Gargoyles’ revolt and induction into the Camarilla has all but doomed the remaining slave Gargoyles, as their masters now monitor them ruthlessly for any sign of betrayal. The Tremerealso aren’t above planting hypnotic suggestions in their Slaves’ minds, so that if they ever do rebel, they still serve a function for the Clan.
	Nickname:Traditionally Slaves, though free Gargoyles have been known to crack heads over it. Othercommon nicknames are Rockheads, Runaways, Freemen, and Grotesques.
	Background:Gargoyles creation rarelyshows a discernible pattern. The Changetortures the new Gargoyle’s body, as boneselongate and split to form the wings. The facewarps, leaving nothing to recognize the mortalor vampire by. They rarely remember their unlife or mortal existence.
	Sect:Gargoyles usually join the Camarilla. It’s not impossible for a Slave to join the Sabbat, but thebloodline as a whole frowns on this.
	Haven:Slave Gargoyles sleep wherever theirmasters allow them — closets, basements, crypts,cells. Free Gargoyles prefer sleeping in havenshigh above the ground. Bell towers and disusedhigh-rises are favorites. Gargoyles are oftenmuscle for other Kindred, sometimes in exchange for a bare-bones haven.
	Appearance:Not all Gargoyles look like the stonegrotesques found spitting rainwater over old buildings,but all are nightmarish. Some have tufts of hair protruding randomly over their bodies, or odd, gallopingwalks. Most Gargoyles have gray, rock-like skin. AllGargoyles have wings. These grow as the character’sFlight (see p. 447) increases.
	Character Creation:Created to be slaves,Gargoyles specialize in Physical Attributes, Talents, and a few select Skills (Melee, for instance).All Gargoyles start with a free dot of the FlightDiscipline. Appearance is always zero. Gargoylescreated by the Tremere are at the same Generationas the Kindred that act as their “base.”
	Clan Disciplines: Flight, Fortitude, Potence, Visceratika
	Weaknesses:The Slaves are hideous. That grotesquerytakes different forms, but always results in an Appearance of zero. They are also highly susceptible to mindcontrol from any source. A Gargoyle’s Willpower score(current or permanent) is considered two points lowerwhen used to resist such powers.
	Organization:Gargoyles have a strong sense of community. They often keep communal havens. Sometimes Gargoyles petition the Prince for the release ofslave Gargoyles, but more often they just tear slaveowners to pieces. With no community, Gargoyles arelikely to Embrace and build their own.

--Harbingers of Skulls
	*The Harbingers of Skulls are a small bloodline thatemerged from the mists of the past and threw their lotin with the Sabbat. The Harbingers are alleged to all beelders, and frighteningly powerful. While their suddenappearance suggests a long bout of torpor, they don’tbehave like recently-awakened vampires. Indeed, theyclaim they have been dead these past five centuries.The Harbingers of Skulls resemble rotting corpses,much like the Samedi. Indeed, vampires that know ofboth bloodlines suggest a common origin, but sinceneither the Samedi nor the Harbingers discuss theirorigins publically, it’s just speculation. The Harbingers have only been members of the Sabbat for a short time, but during that time they havemade themselves invaluable. The Sword of Caine,lacking Giovanni members, has difficulty dealing withghosts. This can lead to problematic hauntings, sincethe Sabbat kills enough people that ghostly visitationcan become an issue. The Harbingers can exorcisesthese vengeful shades, or, better yet, turn them intoincorporeal spies and slaves. And for all of this, theHarbingers ask nothing except for favors to be repaid at a later date.The Sabbat, for its part, isn’t usually givento the favor-trading that one finds in the Camarilla, but what the Harbingers bring to thetable is too valuable to miss. And besides,whether one believes the fairy tale aboutnoble origins and “revenge on the traitorousmoneylenders” that the Harbingers sometimesspin, their passion is palpable. That kind ofmurderous zeal is always welcome in the Swordof Caine.
	Nickname:Lazarenes
	Background:The background of a “typical” Harbinger is impossible to know. They are all elders, and whothey were in life has been lost to time. They do seem toshow evidence of a classical education, and one survivor of a battle between a Harbinger and a gang of Camarilla Brujah mentions that the Lazarene used a styleof fighting that originated in Florence. Beyond thosesparse clues, however, the Harbingers’ true identitiesare unknown.
	Sect:The Harbingers of Skulls belong entirelyto the Sabbat. That said, given that the bloodlineobviously has many secrets buried, it’s impossibleto know if any Lazarenes claim membership in theCamarilla or remain independent.
	Haven:Unlike most Sabbat Kindred, the Harbingers of Skulls do not join packs, and therefore do notuse communal havens. They usually choose lairs awayfrom mortal interference, but close enough to the living that they don’t want for blood (or fresh corpses for their horrific arts). Crypts, disused laboratories, andslaughterhouses are common choices.
	Appearance:The Harbingers prefer to stay hiddenin their havens, or at least remain among Kindred,and for good reason. They resemble emaciated,shrunken corpses. Their skin grows taut and white,and the gums recede, giving the impression of ableached, grinning skull. Most Harbingers wearing flowing garments or burial shrouds, the better tohighlight their affinity for death.
	Character Creation:The Harbingers of Skulls tendtoward morbid and somewhat violent concepts. Theyare obsessed with revenge, death, and the horrors beyond the grave. Social Attributes and Abilities aren’t apriority. Mental Attributes and Knowledges are generally highly rated, but their status as elders means thatthey are formidable across the board (and imply a significant amount spent on the Generation Backgroundto boot).
	Clan Disciplines: Auspex, Fortitude, Necromancy
	Weaknesses:No matter how much blood a Harbingerconsumes, her skin remains deathly pale. Moreover, allHarbingers look like shriveled corpses. They have Appearance ratings of 0 and automatically fail Appearance rolls.
	Organization:The Harbingers have some kind of internal organization, and they do keep in contact andeven meet with one another occasionally. They keepin touch using ghostly messengers, and they travel to meet each other using methods that other Kindred cannot match. Most of the Sabbat doesn’t quite know howmany Harbingers exist or what they might be doing.

--Kiasyd
	*The Kiasyd are a bloodline of the Lasombra Clan;that much is obvious, given that these odd Kindredmake use of the Obtenebration Discipline. But theiraversion to iron, their odd power of Mytherceria, andtheir very appearance speak to even stranger ancestry. The Kiasyd are independent, focused more on theirstudies than on the causes of the Sword of Caine. Theones that do claim membership in the Sabbat aren’tpassionately involved in the Sect’s activities. Somespeculate that the Lasombra hold some power overthem — did the Keepers create the Kiasyd, the way theTzimisce created the Blood Brothers? Do the Kiasyd,whatever their origin, owe the Lasombra some debt?Whatever the nature of their relationship, it seems tobenefit the Sabbat.The Kiasyd are, as a rule, calm and studious. Theyprefer to remain ensconced within their havens, poring over ancient texts, maps, artifacts, and other bitsof antiquity. Other Kindred, it seems, can’t understandhow a lineage of vampires that is so very strange couldbe nothing more than scholars. To hear the rumor-milltell it, the Kiasyd can feed only on the blood of infants,or faeries, or unspoiled virgins. Their otherworldly heritage comes not from the Good Folk, but from demonsand the forces of Hell. Their odd appearance isn’t because of mutation in their vitae, but a God-given warning: These are not Kindred. They are other.
	Nickname:Weirdlings
	Background:Museum curators, talented students, librarians, rare book experts, and academics of all stripesare likely choices for Kiasyd Embraces. The Weirdlingswant their progeny to be studious, polite, and educated,and they don’t want to take the time instructing themin the basics of erudite understanding.
	Sect:Most Kiasyd belong to the Sabbat, at leastnominally. A rare few identify as Camarilla vampires,and others are independent. Since the Kiasyd don’tspend much time around each other if they can help it(see below), drawing a conclusion about their collective preferences is difficult.
	Haven:Most Kiasyd spend years building up theirhavens, improving security, library facilities, and otheramenities. They are fiercely protective of their homes,and they do not allow guests without explicit invitations. When they do invite guests, however, they treatthem well, offering vintage vitae, comfortable roomsand, of course, plenty of reading material.
	Appearance:The Kiasyd aren’t called “Weirdlings”just because of their behavior. Most of them are wellover six feet tall (two meters or more), willowy, andthin. Their skin isn’t just pale, as with most vampires,but glows faintly in moonlight. Their eyes are almondshaped and have no visible pupils. They are often violet or jet black in color. Their ears are slightly pointed.The Kiasyd cover this with a hat or headband whengoing out amongst mortals, but even so, their heightand skin tone make them stand out.
	Character Creation:Mental Attributes and Knowledges are usually primary, though all Kiasyd have somedegree of Etiquette. Occult is, of course, a commonAbility. Resources, Generation, and Contacts (withother Kindred) are the only common Backgrounds. Kiasyd have difficulty mingling with mortals long enoughto gain others.
	Clan Disciplines: Dominate, Mytherceria, Obtenebration
	Weaknesses:Besides their somewhat freakish appearance, Kiasyd also have an allergy to iron. Touchingiron requires an immediate roll to avoid frenzy, and anyweapons made from cold iron inflict aggravated damage to Kiasyd.
	Organization:The Kiasyd don’t enjoy each other’scompany, which is strange, considering how little theyhave in common with everyone else. After a short period of instruction (50 years at the most, and this periodhas grown much shorter in modern nights), a Kiasydchilde is released from her sire’s haven and is no longerthe elder Kiasyd’s responsibility.

--Nagaraja
	*A bizarre bloodline of flesh-eating witches, the Nagaraja are legends, feared by Kindred on all sides of theJyhad. As a result of their hideous appetites, the Nagaraja have been hunted to near extinction in the modern nights by political enemies and the ghosts uponwhom they prey. A few of these vampires still prowlthe darkness, however, continuing their subtle plans.Although not particularly forthcoming with theirorigins, the Nagaraja supposedly hail from theMiddle East. They are associated witha death cult in that region that ritually consumed human flesh and openedgateways into the lands of the dead.How these cultists became vampires islost to history, but those few Kindredthat have met the Nagaraja havetheories: maybe a wandering Giovanni trader Embraced them, perhapsthey tried to follow in Tremere’sfootsteps, or they could be the lastsurviving Cappadocians. The Nagaraja refuse to confirm or denysuch speculations, however,so the truth and rumorcontinue to entwinearound these mysterious Kindred. Some of the Flesh Eaters belong to a Sectof vampires calledthe Tal’Mahe’Ra orthe “True Black Hand,” apparently distinctfrom the Black Hand of the Sabbat. Whatthe Tal’Mahe’Ra is doing in the Deadlandsisn’t clear, nor why they war with the Restless Dead, but their city in the Underworld ishome to a number of the Nagaraja. Thosein the land of the living are independent,now seeking to eke out whatever unlifethey can.
	Nickname:Flesh-Eaters
	Background:Most Nagaraja are well-educated, andmany have some medicalknowledge (either fromtheir mortal lives or acquired post-Embrace). Thebloodline’s small numbersmake further assertions difficult to support. Some Nagaraja were priests or cultistsbefore the Embrace, someantiquarians, and some exorcists or ghost-hunters.
	Sect:The Nagaraja as a wholerefuse membership in either theCamarilla or the Sabbat, but inCamarilla cities they follow therules as well as they can (giventheir weakness).
	Haven:The Nagaraja take havens where they can.One thing that the Flesh-Eaters do try to incorporateinto their havens, when they can, is a means for disposing of bodies. They do not have the luxury ofmerely sipping a bit of blood the wayother Kindred do.
	Appearance:Nagaraja have pointed, irregular teeth,rather than the usual retractable fangs. This meansthat they seldom smile, and they tend to speak quietlyaround mortals — unless they plan to eat them.
	Character Creation:Nagaraja usually have solitary orselfish concepts and Natures,though their Demeanors maybe practically anything. Mental Attributes are usually primary, as are Knowledges. Themost common Backgroundsfor Nagaraja are Contacts,Resources, and Retainers,though a few twisted Mentorssometimes Embrace childer.
	Clan Disciplines:Auspex, Dominate, Necromancy
	Weaknesses:The Nagaraja requireraw flesh in addition to blood to survive. For every night a Nagarajagoes without consuming flesh, he loses one cumulativedie from all his Physical dice pools. Eating one pointworth of flesh restores one die to these pools until thevampire has “caught up.” A human body has 10 “fleshpoints,” which work just like blood points: A Nagaraja consuming one flesh point increases his blood poolby one. Unlike blood points, however, taking a “fleshpoint” from a vessel does one health level of unsoakable lethal damage to that vessel. The flesh the Nagaraja consume must be relatively fresh, though not necessarily “alive.” Indeed, some Nagaraja keep stores ofritually preserved corpses in their havens. This weakness does not allow them to eat food or consume otherliquids.
	Organization:While some claim this bloodlinebelongs to the Tal’Mahe’Ra in its entirety, there areample exceptions. A given Nagaraja might keep contact with another, but the bloodline as a whole has noorganization.

--Salubri
	*The Salubri were once a true Clan. Their Clanfounder, Saulot, was said to be a superlative warrioras well as a fair-minded judge. It was also said that hegrew progressively more disgusted with Kindred affairsover time, and weary of the constant, bloody cycles ofviolence and betrayal. He left his home for lands far tothe east. When he returned, he was changed. He wastranquil and contemplative, but also somewhat fatalistic. Most surprisingly, though, he had developed a thirdeye in his forehead. Saulot Embraced new childer, andhis Clan slowly split into two distinct lines — the “warrior” and “healer” Salubri. For centuries, they acted asadvisors, bodyguards, and sages to other Kindred and,to a lesser extent, mortals. And then came the diablerie of Saulot.The mages of the newly created Tremere line foundSaulot’s torpid body, and drained his blood and soul.They usurped the power of the one of the Clans ofCaine, and sent the Salubri into a downward spiral fromwhich they never really recovered. Tonight, rumor hasit that only seven members of the once-respected lineexist at any given time.The rumors die hard, however. Modern Kindredknow of the Salubri as diablerists who consume theirown sires (and do it openly — patricide is hardly unknown among the other Clans, but they don’t admit toit) and remove the souls of other Kindred. The Soulsuckers are, supposedly, a Clan of defilers and liars fromcenturies past, possibly involved with demon worship,and demonstrably part of the Sabbat (see Salubri antitribu, p. 431). They ask, quite reasonably, how theSalubri are able to achieve Golconda with any regularity. They wonder how any line can sustain itself withso few members. And, finally, they pose this question:even if these first two notions are taken as given, whywould the Salubri need to submit to diablerie? Why dotheir childer need to consume their sires’ souls, if notfor some defect in the bloodline itself?
	Nickname:Cyclops, or, less kindly, Soulsuckers
	Background:The Salubri Embrace people whomthey feel can find Golconda. Healers, teachers, empaths, and other people with high Humanity ratingsare good choices, although occasionally Salubri Embrace evil people in hopes of seeing them redeemed(or, at least, setting them on that path).
	Sect:The Salubri are independent, though they dosometimes masquerade as other Clans and blend inwith the Camarilla. The Salubri, however, are just trying to survive long enough to reach Golconda and passalong their blood. Sectarian politics mean nothing tothem.
	Haven:Salubri are unwelcome in most cities, andthat means their havens are situated in isolated environments. They also usually have multiple escaperoutes, and only have what possessions the charactercan carry in a backpack. Quick departures are not uncommon for the members of this bloodline, so Salubridon’t get attached to their havens.
	Appearance:Each Salubri has a third eye in the center of their forehead. Otherwise, the Salubri are toofew in number for any generalization about their appearances to be possible. Their ranks in modern nightshave included children, the elderly, and adults of allraces.
	Character Creation:Social or Mental Attributes areoften primary, as are Knowledges. Most Salubri alsohave decent ratings in Empathy. All Salubri must takefive dots of Generation (to represent their diablerie oftheir sires), and most have at least a dot of Herd aswell.
	Clan Disciplines: Auspex, Fortitude, Obeah
	Weaknesses:Salubri have difficulty feeding on unwilling vessels. If a Cyclops attempts it, she loses a pointof Willpower.
	Organization:The Salubri are not, as a bloodline,organized. In fact, when Salubri do meet, it tends tobe on the instruction of their sires — the dying wish of a given Cyclops to her childe might be to seek outanother member of the bloodline and deliver a messageor pay respects.

--Samedi
	*If the Nosferatu are repulsive and the Harbingers of Skulls are hideous, a word hasn’t yet been invented todescribe the Samedi. Resembling nothing so much aswalking, rotting corpses, these odd vampires take theirname and their origin from the Caribbean and the religion of vodoun (popularly known as voodoo). Baron Samedi, in legend, was a loa of death and ancestor worship. The vampires that bear his name and visage (forSamedi is often portrayed as a corpse, albeit not oneso disgusting as the Stiffs) also often share his rude,blunt demeanor. In fact, a vampire going by the nameof “Baron Samedi” seems to be the founder, or at leastthe oldest extant member, of the bloodline.The Samedi might seem to be an offshoot of theNosferatu, but their powers of Thanatosis — a Discipline dedicated to manipulating dead flesh — speak ofa connection to the Giovanni or their doomed predecessors, the Cappadocians. If that is the case, though,the Samedi and the Giovanni went their separate wayslong ago, for neither has anything good to say aboutthe other. The reason for this enmity is not somethingthat members of either line discuss in public, but theGiovanni apparently have a history with Baron Samedi himself. The Baron, still active in the bloodline’saffairs, refuses to discuss the “deal” that he had withAugustus Giovanni, but it must have been somethingof gravity for the mutual dislike to persist.Samedi take the roles of enforcers and assassinsin Kindred society. They don’t do it on ideological grounds, like the Assamites, and thus they findwork with Kindred who wantto get what they paid for.The Samedi do not takecontracts against Nosferatu or, strangely,Giovanni Kindredwithout a heavyfee, speaking to someregard or fear of theseClans. As with so manyother facts about theirline, the Samedi have nothing to say on the matter.
	Nickname:Stiffs
	Background:The Samedi are a relatively youngline. No Samedi older than 250 years is known to exist.Most of the older ones hail from the Caribbean islandsor the southern United States. Neonate Samedi don’talways share this connection to vodoun, but frequentlywere close to death (one way or another) before theEmbrace.
	Sect:Samedi occasionally jointhe Camarilla or the Sabbat, butfor the most part they considerthemselves independent.
	Haven:The Samedi make havens in places wherea moldering corpse and its stench aren’t out of place.Morgues, mortuaries, graveyards, and meat packingplants house the occasional Samedi. Some members ofthe bloodline choose to dwell below ground like theNosferatu, but this does lead to conflict between theStiffs and the Sewer Rats.
	Appearance:Saying that a Samedi resembles a rotting corpse is, sadly, in noway a euphemism. Their flesh is soft andtends to leak fluid if poked too hard. Their ears and noses rot away (but still function normally),and tiny bits of their skin tend to slough off and regrow.Skin retracts from the eyes and teeth, giving them theappearance of grinning skulls, but too much meat clingsto the cranium for them to achieve the cleaner horrorof the Harbingers of Skulls. Some Samedi are leatheryand dry, like unwrapped mummies. These Stiffs stillstink, but their stench is more reminiscent of rottedflowers and old decay than fresh putrescence.
	Character Creation:While Physical Attributes are apriority for those Samedi working as killers and enforcers, many Samedi lean toward Mental Traits. Samedirarely have the Herd or Resources Backgrounds, andtheir standoffish and solitary nature means that Mentor and Allies are equally rare.
	Clan Disciplines: Fortitude, Obfuscate, Thanatosis
	Weaknesses:The Samedi, as mentioned, are putridbeyond words. Samedi characters have Appearanceratings of 0, and automatically fail Appearance rolls.
	Organization:The Samedi are too rare to be organized. They might cross each other’s paths occasionally and trade stories, but no plan or schedules existsfor these meetings, at least as far as anyone outside thebloodline can tell.

--True Brujah
	*The Clan Brujah that most Kindred know in themodern nights is not, according to legend, the truelineage of the Antediluvian known as “Brujah.” Thestrange bloodline known as the True Brujah claim thatBrujah’s childe, Troile, committeddiablerie upon him and stole control of the Clan. Brujah, it issaid, was not the hot-bloodedwarrior/scholar that manyvampires associate with theRabble, but rather a staid,passionless introvert. Why,then, he chose to Embrace amaniac like Troile in the firstplace is a mystery that will likelynever be fully explained.The True Brujahwere never subject toa massive purge as theSalubri or the Cappadocians were, but theydon’t Embrace oftenand never recoveredfrom the theft of theirClan status. Theircity — the Carthageof Kindred myth, inwhich vampires openlyruled over mortals —supposedly died out dueto the treachery of Troile’schilder (though other storiessuggest demonic influence).From there, the bloodlinefaded from history. A fewnotable members of thebloodline appear throughout history, but by themodern nights only Kindred historians or thosewho chance to meetthem can speak of theirexistence.Whatever the truthof their origins, theTrue Brujah have remained a small but constant presence in Kindred society. Sometimes theywear their true nature openly, while other times theyclaim membership in other Clans (stating their Clanas “Brujah,” for example, and not bothering to correctthe misapprehension that ensues). Their primary focusis the pursuit of knowledge, and to that end they havemade some strange alliances. The True Brujah occasionally ally with the Followers of Set, and sometimeseven provide services as consultants to the Sabbat inexchange for access to secrets and locations normallyclosed to them.
	Nickname:Sages
	Background:It’s not entirely accurate to say thatthe True Brujah only Embrace academics and scholars, but it’s fairly rare for them to do otherwise. Sagessometimes Embrace out of curiosity or even spite, butfor the most part they choose people whose capacity oflearning and accumulated knowledge will benefit theirsires.
	Sect:The Sages have become more or less independent. They follow the Camarilla’s rules when in theircities, and avoid the Sabbat lest they become pressedinto service or destroyed. While it isn’t impossible for aTrue Brujah to join the Sword of Caine, most of themcan’t summon up the necessary fervor.
	Haven:Some True Brujah maintain multiple havens around the world, which they use as they travelpursuing whatever kind of knowledge they find mostfascinating. Others stay closer to a given city, generally with a centuries-old university or other center oflearning nearby. In either case, their havens tend to beclean, well-maintained, and austere.
	Appearance:In nights past, the True Brujah werepredominantly of Greek or North African descent. Asthe centuries wore on, though, the Sages Embracedprogeny from across Europe and, eventually, the NewWorld. In modern nights, True Brujah tend to dressprofessionally, the better to fit in with the academicsettings they prefer.
	Character Creation:Mental Attributes and Knowledges are usually primary. True Brujah sires instructtheir childer in the basics of Occult and some form ofcombat (it’s just not practical to be unable to fight).Nature and Demeanor are often similar, if not identical, and never anything forceful or passionate. Common Backgrounds include Resources, Contacts, andHerd.
	Clan Disciplines: Potence, Presence, Temporis
	Weaknesses:True Brujah lose much of their emotionalcapacity when they are Embraced, and their ability forsympathy continues to deteriorate as they grow older.All Conscience and Conviction rolls are made at +2difficulty (maximum 10), and ratings in Conscience,Conviction, Humanity, and Paths of Enlightenmentcost double the normal experience costs.
	Organization:While their rarity precludes frequentmeetings, the bloodline comes together twice a century to discuss matters that affect them all. The eldestmembers of the bloodline determine the location andspecific time of the meeting. Outside of these largermeetings, many True Brujah stay in contact via letters,whether handwritten or online.

--Ahrimanes
	*The strange tale of the Ahrimanes begins with a Sabbat Gangrel antitribu named Muricia. Caught betweentwo warring factions of Sabbat Gangrel, she watchedas her packmates were pulled into the conflict andultimately killed. She renounced the Sabbat and theGangrel Clan entirely, now calling herself “anAhrimane,” and called upon shamanic magicto alter herself. How exactly this was accomplished is still a mystery. One theoryis that Muricia was an anomaly evenbefore she attempted her magical working, and had access to powersthat other vampires didn’t. Another (possibly more plausible)theory is that Muricia had helpfrom mortal sorcerers whowere hoping the effectwould spread throughoutthe Kindred of the world,sterilizing them and preventing any new vampiresfrom being created. Regardless of the origin,Muricia found that shewas not able to createchilder or blood bonds.She did, however,retain the ability toturn other Kindred(at least otherGangrel)intowhatevershe had become. She kept the animalistic features that shecan gained during her previous unlife, however, and itmay have been her cat-like eyes that lent her bloodlineits nickname.Muricia extended the offered of “becoming Ahrimane” to any female Gangrel who wished it. Shemade it quite clear she was not interested inperforming the process on male Kindred,though the specific reasons for this remainunclear. A few Gangrel joined her, takinghavens in the southern United States andavoid contacting with other Sabbat. The Ahrimanes were never numerous, and althoughthey remained nominally allied with the Sabbat, Muriciamade it quite clear that theywere to be left alone. This isolation may have doomed them,however. In the late 1990s, allcontact with the Cats ceased.Investigators found, sometimelater, that their havens wereempty, and no one has heardfrom them since. Most Sabbatbelieve that the Ahrimaneswere destroyed, but concedethat it is possible that Muricia might have led herline on a spiritual pilgrimage somewhere out of the Kindred’sreach.
	Nickname:Cats
	Background:All Ahrimanes were Gangrel beforetheir magical transformation. As such, their Backgrounds varied just as much as the Beasts’. The sort ofGangrel who became an Ahrimane was female, usuallynon-white, and frustrated by the situation in her Sector city.
	Sect:The Ahrimanes were an independent Sect, ormore accurately, a group of independent individuals.They identified more with the Sabbat than the Camarilla, if only because they did not wish to answer to anyelder (expect perhaps Muricia).
	Haven:Muricia was a vampire of some means, andshe purchased houses on the outskirts of several citiesin the American South (in Louisiana, Mississippi, andGeorgia especially). New Ahrimanes could make theirown arrangements or stay in one of these homes.
	Appearance:All Ahrimanes were female, and mostwere either of African American or Native Americandescent (Muricia, apparently, was not partial to Caucasian vampires). Most Ahrimanes never went anywhereunarmed, and dressed to fight. Many Ahrimanes hadanimal features left over from their time as Gangrel.
	Character Creation:All Ahrimanes had at leastthree dots in Mentor, to represent Muricia’s guidance.Combat Abilities and Physical Attributes were common, but this was as much from the Ahrimanes’ Gangrel background as anything else. Likewise, a dot or twoof Protean or Fortitude was common, since Ahrimanesbegan unlife as Gangrel.
	Clan Disciplines: Animalism, Presence, Spiritus
	Weaknesses:An Ahrimanes’ blood was inert. Theywere unable to create childer or blood bonds, and a person consuming Ahrimane blood did not become aghoul.
	Organization:Since all Ahrimanes effectively hadthe same “sire,” they were all beholden to Muricia. Shedid not attempt to control or rule her creations, but didkeep tabs on them and help them develop their powers of Spiritus. The bloodline was fairly tight-knit, asvampire “families” go, and threatening one Ahrimanegenerally meant battling several.

--Anda
	*The Anda were a Gangrel offshoot, created by a Methuselah called Dobrul the Brave. Dobrul, a wandererwith great respect for the Mongol hordes, Embracedseveral of their warriors. These vampires became the spirit warriors of the steppe, following the nomadicMongol tribes and protecting them from outwardthreats.The Anda had intricate rites governing the Embraceof new Kindred. Once a candidate was selected, anyAnda in the area met for a discussion on that candidate’s qualities. The prospective Tartar had to be animpressive warrior, but tempered enough in natureto understand that only by protecting his tribefrom outward supernatural threats could he keepit healthy enough to feed from. Once the decision was made, the prospective sire would wash thecandidate in a river, a ritual funerary bathing in theMongol tradition. He would then drain and Embracethe new vampire.This kind of ritual and observance governed much ofthe Anda’s existence. Long and lonely nights wandering the steppe, either with the Mongols or alone (andthey did wander alone, sometimes even into WesternEurope), the Anda’s Beast was the only company.Small wonder that these Kindred viewed themselves asspiritual warriors, their brutal ethos the only bulwarkagainst madness and depredation.The Anda made war against a variety of foes. Theywould join their nomad tribes against whatever enemies they chose (as far as they could, since not allbattles were fought at night). They also clashed withnative Chinese shapeshifters and vampires, and it wasthis latter group that proved the undoing of the Andain the 14th century. The bloodline’s heyday was thereign of Kublai Khan, and during this time they couldbe found openly celebrating their undead nature inChina. When Kublai died, the Anda fell into decline,and in the modern nights none are known to exist.
	Nickname:Tartars
	Background:The Anda did not Embrace capriciously. They chose their candidates carefully, sincethis choice made a statement about who would protecttheir people. All Anda were skilled horsemen, trackers, warriors, and, to some degree, shamans.
	Sect:Wandering Anda might join a particular vampire’s court, at least for a time, but their irresistiblepush to keep moving prevented them from becomingpermanent fixtures anywhere in Europe. In their ownlands, they watched over Mongol tribes called yasun,parasitically protecting and feeding from the mortals.
	Haven:The Anda dwelled on the steppe, far enoughaway from their yasun to avoid discovery, but closeenough to catch up with them when night fell. Thetruly monstrous or depraved among them did not protect a tribe, but led a solitary unlife, feeding as opportunity permitted. These poor souls typically fell to torpor from hunger, and if any Anda still exist, it is likelyone of these horrors, sleeping buried in somewhere inChina.
	Appearance:The Anda Embraced exclusively fromthe Mongol tribes, so they were short, stocky, and bowlegged from a lifetime of riding. The skin of an Andafaded to an odd brown-yellow following the Embrace.
	Character Creation:Unlife on the steppe was harsh.Physical Attributes were generally primary, with Talents and Skills sharing priority (especially martial ones— all Anda had some facility in Melee, Brawl, andSurvival). All of the Anda’s Disciplines were important, but neonate Anda generally found that learningEarth Meld was a matter of survival.
	Clan Disciplines: Animalism, Fortitude, Protean
	Weaknesses:Like the Gangrel from which they weredescended, Anda gained animal features from frenzying. Unlike the Gangrel, though, Anda gained such afeature once every other frenzy. However, the Anda suffered a further weakness — for each day after the thirdthat an Anda slept within the same one-mile area, alldice pools were halved (to a minimum pool of one).
	Organization:On the night of the new moon, allAnda within a given radius met to discuss the movements of their yasun and what kinds of threats mightrequire their collective attention. The eldest Anda insuch a gathering was called the khan, and all otherswere expected to submit to his authority.

--Cappadocians
	*The story of Clan Cappadocian is tragic, but illustrative of the parasitic cycle of Kindred existence. Nothing lasts forever in vampiric circles, but nothing evertruly dies.The Cappadocians were a Clan that focused on deathand undeath. Their founder, an ancient known simplyas “Cappadocius” (“of Cappadocia”), did not attemptto rule his Clan. He asked only that they continue thesearch for truth and the secrets of life and death. TheClan’s ancestral roots were rumored to be somewherein Asia Minor, but by the end of the Dark Ages theyhad spread throughout Europe. Known as scholars,mystics, and necromancers, the Cappadocians were asfirmly entrenched in the Cainite society of their timeas any of the Clans of the Camarilla are tonight The Graverobbers expanded their knowledge baseby Embracing members of important families or promising scholars. By the 13th century they had inroadsacross Europe, in monasteries, universities, and in thecourts of royalty, but also members and ghouls amongthe working classes. Everyone must eventually die,the Cappadocians realized, and every death waspotentially a lesson.Their inclusive attitude may have spelled theClan’s doom. They accepted a Venetian merchant family called the Giovanni (the family’spropensity for summoning up and controllingghosts had as much to do with their Embrace as their skill with finance). Over thefollowing centuries, the Giovanni workedtheir way into the hierarchy of the Clan, until Augustus Giovanni committed diablerieupon Cappadocius. Over the next few centuries, the Giovanni systematically destroyed theremaining Cappadocians. In modern nights, onlysmall remnants survive, such as the Harbingers ofSkulls. The lineage of these remnants is largely unknown.
	Nickname:Graverobbers
	Background:As a general rule, the Cappadocianswere not concerned with ethnicity or nationality whenEmbracing, meaning that it wasn’t uncommon to findMoors, Jews, or even pagans brought into the Clan.The Graverobbers were more inclined to Embrace people with an interest in death. That didn’t necessarilymean causing death (though certainly they Embracedtheir share of soldiers and hunters), but scholars of theafterlife and religion, gravediggers, priests, and hermitsall found their way to Clan Cappadocian.
	Sect:The Cappadocians did not survive longenough to take a side in the Camarilla/Sabbat divide.
	Haven:Cappadocians preferred a measure of solitudewhen choosing their havens. Although they had to stayclose enough to mortals to feed, they often chose quiet locales to make their homes — monasteries, crypts,and even sewers or cisterns. The Cappadocians actingas scholars or advisors enjoyed a better standard of unlife, but even they often chose places that mortals hadno interest in exploring.
	Appearance:The Graverobbers were pale andcorpse-like, even for vampires. Their hair often darkened slightly after the Embrace, giving them even more of an ethereal appearance. The Cappadocians dressedappropriately for their station and role.
	Character Creation:Mental Attributes and Knowledges were often primary, and rare was the Cappadocian without at least a few dots of Occult. The Clanincluded warriors as well as scholars and priests, anda Cappadocian who chose to be a tyrant could be afrightening creature indeed. For the most part, though,the Clan tended more toward intellectual and spiritualpursuits, and choices of Abilities and Backgrounds reflected that. 
	Clan Disciplines: Auspex, Fortitude, Necromancy
	Weaknesses:As mentioned, the Cappadocians exhibited a deathly pallor, and this only worsened as thevampire grew older. Young Cappadocians were ableto pass for human (though mortals that knew what tolook for could pick them out easily), but elder Cappadocians showed shriveled skin and a much more withered countenance.
	Clan Cappadocian was, in its heyday,an important Clan historically. It claimed domain in several important cities across Europe, and it wasn’tuncommon for Graverobbers to act as spiritual or mystical advisors to other medieval Princes. Internally, theClan had little strict hierarchy, though as the yearswore on the Clan’s core became more localized aroundthe founder (which, in turn, allowed the Giovanni totake it over).

--Children of Osiris
	*Egyptian mythology abounds with tales of the rivalrybetween Set and his brother, Osiris. Knowledgeablevampires are aware that the Followers of Set claim descent from an Antediluvian who took his name fromthat Egyptian serpent-god (though the Setites certainly seem to think Set actually was the god). If that’s the case, such Kindred wonder, who was Osiris? A mortalspellcaster that was Embraced? Set’s childe? Or perhapsanother Antediluvian, lost to time and destroyed millennia ago?Whatever the truth about Set, there was once a powerful vampire called Osiris. He was a philosopher anda scholar in an Egyptian court (whose dynasty is unknown), Embraced by an unknown vampire who believed that his knowledge of the law would make hima useful ally in the battle to bring Egypt under Kindredinfluence. Osiris, however, was horrified by his newcondition. Rather than meet the sun, though, he became determined to face and banish his personal demons, and especially his own Beast. His studies on sublimating the vampiric impulses may have helped formthe basis for the search for Golconda. At the very least,they expanded it.The Children of Osiris might have become a Clanand continued into the modern nights, but Set slewOsiris. As mortal legendry has it, Set dismembered his“brother” and scattered his body throughout the landof Egypt. His sister, Isis (perhaps another vampire, butno one still extant seems to know for sure) found thepieces and reassembled them, and impossibly, Osiriswas resurrected. Death, however, had taken its toll. Hisblood was inert, and he could no longer create morechilder. This, however, did not stop him from spreading his path.
	Nickname: Since even the Kindred who know about the Children of Osiris assume them all to be dead, theydo not have a common nickname.
	Background:Children of Osiris renounce their Clans because they hate their condition, but do notwish to commit suicide. The search for Golconda leadssome Kindred to the Children, while others encounterthe Sect after running afoul of the Followers of Set.
	Sect:Strictly speaking, the Children of Osiris are aSect, rather than a bloodline. They do not (and, byvirtue of their own laws, cannot) join the Sabbat orthe Camarilla.
	Haven:The few remaining Children of Osiris in theworld dwell in one of several temples. These templesare well-hidden and kept secret from other Kindred, meaning that they tend to be in areas that don’t boastmuch of a vampire population.
	Appearance:Since the Children can hail from anyClan or bloodline, their appearance can vary widely.They all shave their heads every evening upon awakening, and when in their temples they wear white robesadorned with mystical symbols and hieroglyphs. Whenleaving their temples on business, they dress simplyand stay inconspicuous.
	Character Creation:Children of Osiris can be fromany Clan (except the Followers of Set; while the Children might be willing to accept a truly repentant Setite, the situation has never come up). The charactercan have any combination of Attributes and Abilities,and they retain whatever knowledge of Disciplinesthey had before joining. Nature and Demeanor tend tobe the same — the Children of Osiris are straightforward and honest.
	Clan Disciplines: As appropriate for the character’soriginal Clan. Children of Osiris can also learn Bardoas an in-Clan Discipline.
	Weaknesses:As appropriate for the character’s original Clan.
	Organization:Each temple is under the supervisionof an elder Child of Osiris (called the Undying King),and the entire Sect answers to a mysterious vampirecalled the Grand Undying King, rumored to be a direct childe of Osiris from before he lost the ability toEmbrace. The Sect focuses on maintaining their Humanity, which is of course a difficult enough concern,but also thwarting the machinations of the Followersof Set without the Serpents knowing they still exist.

--Lamia
	*The Lamia were a bloodline of Cainites devotedto defending Clan Cappadocian. The founder of thebloodline, Lamia, claimed to be a daughter of Lilith,Adam’s first wife. According to legend, a Cappadocianelder named Lazarus found her performing sacred ritesto Lilith, the Dark Mother. Impressed by her skill andperhaps taken with her fierce beauty, he Embraced her. While she died and the Change took her, Lilith gaveher a vision, a deep understanding of her future andthat of the Cappadocians. When she recovered, shewhispered something to Lazarus, and the Cappadocianelder fled in terror.Lamia did find her way back to the Clan, though,and her bloodline became the guardians of the Cappadocians. They were never very numerous, but important Graverobbers often had at least one Gorgonstanding at their side. The Lamia learned to feed sparingly, since their bite carried disease, and developedtheir own path of Necromancy based on the four humors. Over the centuries, they became an importantresource for the Cappadocians. And yet, behind theirloyalty was perhaps a greater dedication to the DarkMother and to the vision of their founder.The Revelation of the Dark Mother seems to haveled the line to tragedy, however. The Lamia died defending the Cappadocians when the Giovanni subsumed the Clan. Augustus Giovanni murdered Lamiaherself following his diablerie of Cappadocius, and thelast known member of the bloodline was destroyed in1718 as part of a Camarilla blood hunt.
	Nickname:Gorgons
	Background:Since the Lamia Embraced womenalmost exclusively, they seldom had the chance toEmbrace trained warriors. Instead, the Gorgons oftenchose women who had some experience with death.Women who had attempted or contemplated suicide,or had recently committed murder, were commonchoices. Likewise, women with a pronounced interest in black magic or scholarly pursuits in general werecandidates for the Lamia Embrace. Training in combatcould come after the gift of immortality.
	Sect:The Lamia were somewhere between the Highand Low Clans. They were not a Clan, but were considered part of Clan Cappadocian in most Cainites’understanding. Other Cainites, however, treated themrespectfully as servants or soldiers, both out of deference to their skills and to their patrons.
	Haven:The Lamia shared havenswith their Cappadocian patrons. Whenthey made their own, they often chosecrypts and sarcophagi, preferring to be alone among the dead (feeding on the recently deadalso minimized their chance of starting an outbreak ofplague).
	Appearance:The Lamia did not share the Cappadocians’ pallor. Many of them were of Mediterranean or Semitic descent, though as theCappadocians traveled across Europewith their Gorgonbodyguards, othernationalities cameinto the bloodline aswell. The bloodline waspredominantly female, but it wasn’t uncommon for Lamia to dress as men (usually armed and armored).
	Character Creation:All Lamia had some combattraining, usually from their sires. Physical or MentalAttributes might be primary, as were Skills. The Lamiaalso tended to have some familiarity with Occult, bothfrom the rites taught to them by their own bloodlineand simply by proximity to the Cappadocians.
	Clan Disciplines: Fortitude, Necromancy, Potence
	Weaknesses:The Lamia carried the “Seed of Lilith,” awasting disease spread by their bite. Anyone the Lamiafed upon was required to make a Stamina roll (difficulty 6 for women, 8 for men). If the roll failed, thevictim contracted a Black Plague-like pox that was fatal within several days. Any vampire that consumedLamia blood became a carrier of the disease until all ofthe Lamia vitae had been purged from his body.
	Organization:The sire-childe relationship in the Lamia was very strong, as most Lamia had to remain withtheir sires for at least a year to achieve the necessarycombat skill to be of use. Lamia remained the leaderof the bloodline until her destruction, but her first andmost important order to her daughter was to serve theCappadocians.

--Lhiannan
	*The Lhiannan boasted a strange creation story. Theyclaimed that their founder — a vampire simply knownas the Crone — became bonded with a spirit of theforests. This spirit was a desperate, jealous being thatcould apparently see that people would destroy the forests and burn the trees that comprised them. Joiningwith an undying predator, then, was apparently thespirit’s attempt at dodging this fate. Whether or notany of that is true, the Lhiannan did have a connectionto the natural world that no other vampire, not eventhe Gangrel, can equal. Whenever a Lhiannan Embraced, a shard of that original spirit broke off and empowered the new Cainite.This spirit-shard allowed Lhiannan to use their OghamDiscipline, which, in turn, enabled the style of unlifethat the Lhiannan enjoyed. It also made the Lhiannan territorial above all else, and the Druids were quitelimited in their mobility. The Lhiannan, much like theTelyavelic Tremere (see p. 438) found common causewith the pagan peoples of Europe. This, unfortunately,put them into conflict with Cainites and mortals whofollowed the Christian faith.The bloodline was never numerous (especially sincecreating a new Lhiannan meant that the sire grewweaker), but the fires of the Inquisition and the spreadof the Christian religion took a harsh toll on the Druids. By the end of the 14th century, they had all beendestroyed. In modern times, though, Gangrel traderumors of powerful Kindred in European forests decorated with strange, bloody symbols, so perhaps someof them survived — or perhaps the forest spirit thatinitially created the bloodline has resurfaced.
	Nickname:Druids
	Background:Since performing the Embrace meantgrowing weaker, the Druids only created childer outof sheer loneliness or when they found someone whotruly impressed them. A pagan spirit-speaker with realdevotion to her craft, or a woodsman with impeccablerespect for the forests might be enough to get a Lhiannan’s attention. The Lhiannan refused to EmbraceChristians, Jews, or Muslims.
	Sect:The Lhiannan did not survive to see the dawning of the Sabbat or the Camarilla. In historicalnomenclature, they were decidedly on the LowClan side of the social divide, and most Cainitesprobably wouldn’t have known them from theGangrel. Lhiannan rarely joined coteries, limitedas they were in mobility.
	Haven:The Lhiannan made their havens in theforests of Europe, constructing simple dwellings orfinding natural shelter. They would sometimes find a man-made haven and kill or enslave the inhabitants,or very rarely eke out an existence on the periphery ofhuman civilization by taking the role of a shaman orwise woman.
	Appearance:The Druids resembled the native people of the regions of Europe that they called home —the British Isles, for the most part.
	Character Creation:All Lhiannan were capable ofsurviving in the wilderness, and so Physical Attributes,Skills, and Talents were important. A Lhiannan actingas a counsel to a mortal settlement was likely to havehigher Social Attributes and appropriate Abilities.Herd and Retainers (animals) were common Backgrounds.
	Clan Disciplines: Animalism, Ogham, Presence
	Weaknesses:The Lhiannan were part nature spirit,and the mark of their inhumanity ran strong withinthem. All difficulties to detect their nature via Auspex were reduced by two, and even normal humans feltvaguely uncomfortable in their presence. Additionally,any Lhiannan who left her territory became agitated— all dice pools were reduced by one die per week (toa minimum of the character’s Stamina) that she wasgone. Once she re-entered her territory, her dice poolsreturned to normal within a few hours.
	Organization:Once a Lhiannan Embraced a child, she generally kept the new vampire around for a fewyears until that childe was ready to fend for himself (andthe novelty of having someone else around wore off).The sire would then send the childe away to find his own haven and territory. The Lhiannan were generallyaware of members of their bloodline whose territorieswere adjacent, but there was no system of communication in place. This, of course, may have contributed totheir eventual destruction.

--Noiad
	*Few Kindred have ever beheld the Northern Lights.The trek to the far reaches of the world, in a place inhospitable to man, beast, or vampire, with no reliableway to feed is enough to put even the most curiousCainite off the idea. And yet, a bloodline of vampiresmanaged to dwell close enough to see these lights ona regular basis. This line — the Noiad — felt it wastheir sacred duty to witness the Northern Lights andinterpret the will of the gods. Their mortal charges, anomadic tribe called the Samí, lived in fearand awe of their godlike protectors.The Noiad defended the Samí fromoutside threats, both natural and supernatural, and acted as shamans and teachersfor these wanderers. In return, the Samí gave oftheir blood and kept the Noiad safe during thelong months with no darkness. Of course, the touch of the Kindred corrupts everything. The Noiad protected the Samí from monsters from the wastes, and their blood allowed themortals to survive times of famine, but the Wanderers also refused to allow their mortal herds tochange or improve. Interlopers were turned asideor killed, regardless of their intentions. When itbecame clear that the march of Christianity (andLasombra working within the Church) could notbe stopped, the Noiad pushed the Samí furthernorth, away from the herds that would sustainthem and away from the dawning of a newera. Whether the Noiad saw something in theNorthern Lights that spurred them to this decision, or whether it was simply fear of change, isnot important in the end. The Noiad drove theSamí almost to destruction.
	Nickname:Wanderers
	Background:The Samí selected for Embrace tendedto be those with talent for divination, as well as dreamand star interpretation. The Noiad also watched children descended from families that included at least one vampire, looking for the traits they favored. Physicalitywas not a primary concern, but only because Samí thatwere not physically capable of thriving in the harshclimates didn’t live long enough to be considered forthe Embrace anyway.
	Sect:The Noiad never belonged to a Sect, and werelargely apart from the vampire politics of the day (atleast until war pushed far enough north to inconvenience them). As a Gangrel offshoot, other Cainiteswould have considered them a Low Clan, on the rareoccasion that other Cainites learned enough aboutthem to have opinions at all.
	Haven:The Samí constructed mobile “havens” thatcould be dragged behind them as they traveled by day.If terrain or numbers made this impossible, the Samíwould watch in awe as their heavenly protectors sankinto the earth, only to rejoin them the next night.
	Appearance:The Noiad dwelled openly among theSamí, and Embraced exclusively from this population.Most Noaid were dark-haired and strongly built fromtheir demanding lifestyles pre-Embrace. Their skin tone, of course, tended to be lighter than their stillliving comrades.
	Character Creation:Physical Attributes weren’tnecessarily primary, but tended to be no worse thanaverage. All Noiad had good ratings in Survival andAnimal Ken, and at least a dot or two in Athletics, andMelee. Finally, all Noiad had at least a dot of the HerdBackground.
	Clan Disciplines: Animalism, Auspex, Protean
	Weaknesses:The Noiad were so intrinsically tied tothe Samí and to their role as the divine protectors ofthe tribe that one of the legends about them came true.The Samí’s protectors, it was said, could not sup fromanimals, but could only take sustenance from the bloodof the chosen (that is, the Samí). The Noiad, in fact,could not drink from animals, though they were capable of drinking from any mortal or Cainite, regardlessof nationality or ethnicity.
	Organization:The Noiad usually saw one anotherwhen they came to witness the Northern Lights (thisalso gave them the opportunity to make sure the godswere all telling them the same things). The Noiad alsoused animals, either ghouls or those controlled by theAnimalism Discipline, to keep in some kind of contact.

#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
#### Nature
Everyone plays a role, often several, every day. Everyindividual displays multiple layers of personality, varying from the contrived to the sincere. Each of theseroles defines how we interact with the people and places around us, and we choose which parts of ourselveswe wish to show.It is the same with Kindred. The concept of Natureand Demeanor corresponds directly to the differentmasks we wear when we interact. A Vampire character’s Nature is her true self, her innermost being — theperson she truly is. It is dangerous to show this, though,as it lets others know who we are and what is importantto us. Thus, characters also have Demeanors, faces they show to the world. By choosing how we relate to theworld, we are able to choose how it relates to us as well,as we guide the responses others give us.Philosophy aside, personality also has an effect onthe mechanics of Vampire. A character may regainher drive and sense of purpose by acting in accordancewith her Nature. Every time a character fulfills the requirement of her Nature Archetype (see below), thatcharacter has the opportunity to regain a point of spentWillpower (see p. 267). If the Storyteller allows, thecharacter regains the point.Archetypes allow players to build a sense of personality for their characters, and to define a bit of whatmakes the character tick. It is worth noting that Archetypes are not rigid; characters need not slavishlydevote themselves to their Natures and Demeanors.Rather, the character should act as the player reasonably or emotionally believes she would act in a givensituation. Players and Storytellers may wish to definetheir own Archetypes that more closely exemplify howthe character in question responds to her surroundings.After all, every character is an individual, and customized Archetypes should be a logical outgrowth of awell-rounded character.Here are some example character Archetypes for awide variety of characters. Some Archetypes are bettersuited for certain Sects or Clans than others.

--Architect
	*The Architect has a sense of purpose even greaterthan herself. She is truly happy only when creatingsomething of lasting value for others. People will always need things, and the Architect strives to provideat least one necessity. Inventors, pioneers, town founders, entrepreneurs, and the like are all Architect Archetypes. A Kindred Architect might seek to createnew laws that affect her fellow undead, or she mightaim to establish a new Anarch domain.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever you establish something of importance or lasting value.

--Autocrat
	*The Autocrat wants to be in charge. He seeks prominence for its own sake, not because he has an operation’s best interests at heart or because he has the bestideas (though he may certainly think so). He may genuinely believe others are incompetent, but ultimatelyhe craves power and control. Dictators, gang leaders,bullies, corporate raiders, and their ilk are AutocratArchetypes. A Kindred Autocrat may crave a title, or he may wish to be recognized as the leader of a coterie.— Regain a point of Willpower when you achievecontrol over a group or organization involving otherindividuals.

--Bon Vivant
	*The Bon Vivant knows that life — and unlife — isshallow and meaningless. As such, the Bon Vivantdecides to enjoy her time on Earth. The Bon Vivantis not necessarily irresponsible. Rather, she is simplypredisposed to having a good time along the way. MostBon Vivants have low Self-Control ratings, as they areso given to excess. Hedonists, sybarites, and dilettantesare all examples of the Bon Vivant Archetype. A Kindred Bon Vivant may sire a brood of fawning childer,or he may spend his time gorging on the blood of drugabusers for the contact high.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever you trulyenjoy yourself and can fully express your exultation. Atthe Storyteller’s option, a particularly fabulous revelmay yield multiple Willpower points.

--Bravo
	*The Bravo is a tough and a bully, and often takes perverse pleasure in tormenting the weak. To the Bravo’smind, might makes right. Power is what matters, andonly those with power should be respected. Naturally,physical power is the best kind, but any kind will do.The Bravo sees overt threats as a perfectly reasonablemeans of gaining cooperation. The Bravo is not incapable of pity or kindness; he just prefers to do things hisway. Robbers, bigots, and thugs are all Bravo Archetypes. A Kindred Bravo may abuse authority the systemhas granted him, or he may — violently or otherwise— force other Kindred out of his way to get what hewants. He’s almost certainly an asshole.— Regain a point of Willpower any time you achieveyour agenda through brutishness or intimidation. Thisneed not be physical, as many Bravos verbally or socially cow their victims.

--Capitalist
	*You are the ultimate mercenary, realizing that thereis always a market to be developed — anything can be acommodity. You have a keen understanding of how tomanipulate both kine and Cainites into thinking thatthey need specific goods or services. Appearance andinfluence are everything when it comes to the big sale,though you’ll use anything to your advantage. Salesmen, soldiers of fortune, and bootlickers all adhere tothe Capitalist Archetype.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever you makea successful “sale” of any commodity. Commoditiesneed not be physical items; they may be bits of information, favors, or other intangibles.

--Caregiver
	*Everyone needs a shoulder to cry on. A Caregivertakes her comfort in consoling others, and people often come to her with their problems. Vampires withCaregiver Archetypes often attempt, as best they can,to protect the mortals on whom they feed. Nurses,doctors, and psychiatrists are examples of potentialCaregivers. Caregiver Kindred are often the type who— tragically — Embrace mortal loves they’ve left behind in hopes of softening their loss, or even those whocreate situations of grief in order to ease it and thusvalidate themselves.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever you successfully protect or nurture someone else.

--Celebrant
	*The Celebrant takes joy in her cause. Whether thecharacter’s passion is battle, religion, foiling her rivals,or reading fine literature, it gives the Celebrant thestrength to withstand adversity. Given the chance, theCelebrant will indulge in her passion as deeply as possible. Unlike the Fanatic (p. 91), the Celebrant pursues her cause not out of duty, but out of enthusiasm.Crusaders, hippies, political activists, and art enthusiasts are Celebrant Archetypes. Celebrant Kindred maycleave to mortal ideologies that are incongruous withtheir new Damned conditions, or they may be the advocates of new trends and causes that move throughundead society.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever you pursueyour cause or convert another character to the samepassion. Conversely, lose a point of temporary Willpower whenever you are denied your passion or it isbadly lost to you.

--Chameleon
	*Independent and self-reliant, you carefully studythe behavior and mannerisms of everyone you comein contact with so you can pass yourself off as someoneelse later. You spend so much time altering your mannerisms and appearance that your own sire may noteven recognize you. Spies, con artists, drag queens, andimpostors best represent the Chameleon. — Regain a point of Willpower whenever you foolsomeone into thinking you’re someone else for yourown (or your pack or coterie‘s) benefit.

--Child
	*The Child is still immature in personality and temperament. He wants what he wants now, and often prefers someone to give it to him. Although he can typically care for himself, he would rather have someonecater to his capricious desires. Some Child Archetypesare actually innocent rather than immature, ignorantof the cold ways of the real world. Actual children,spoiled individuals, and some drug abusers are ChildArchetypes. Kindred with the Child Archetype mighthave not yet fully reached an understanding of theworld and have some characteristic such as cruelty, entitlement, sympathy, or hunger that is out of balancewith their other personality aspects, as they haven’t yetreached the “rounded” state of adulthood. Note that aChild Archetype need not be a physical, literal child atthe time of Embrace. Some people simply never growup.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever you manage to convince someone to help you with no gain toherself, or to nurture you.

--Competitor
	*The Competitor takes great excitement in the pursuit of victory. To the Competitor, every task is a newchallenge to meet and a new contest to win. Indeed,the Competitor sees all interactions as some sort of opportunity for her to be the best — the best leader, themost productive, the most valuable, or whatever. Corporate raiders, professional athletes, and impassionedresearchers are all examples of Competitor Archetypes.Kindred Competitors have any number of resourcesand accomplishments over which to assert themselves,from mortal herds and creature comforts to titles andprestige in Kindred society.— Regain one point of Willpower whenever yousucceed at a test or challenge. Note that a test or challenge is more than just a dice roll; it’s an entire dramatic situation. Especially difficult victories may, atthe Storyteller’s discretion, allow you to regain multiple Willpower points.

--Conformist
	*The Conformist is a follower, taking another’s leadand finding security in the decisions of others. She prefers not to take charge, instead seeking to throw in withthe rest of the group and lend her own unique aid. The Conformist is drawn to the most dynamic personalityor the individual she perceives to be the “best.” Beinga Conformist is not necessarily a bad thing — everygroup needs followers to lend stability to their causes.Groupies, party voters, and “the masses” are Conformist Archetypes. Conformist Kindred can take manyforms, from the ardent Sabbat pack member, to theKindred who follows a Clan-first agenda, to the trustedsupporters of a titled vampire or rising star.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever the groupor your supported leader achieves a goal due to yoursupport.

--Conniver
	*Why work for something when you can trick somebody else into getting it for you? The Conniver alwaystries to find the easy way, the fast track to success andwealth. Some people call him a thief, a swindler, orless pleasant terms, but he knows that everybody in theworld would do unto him if they could. He just doesit first, and better. Criminals, con artists, salespeople,urchins, and entrepreneurs might be Connivers. Somewould argue that all Kindred are Connivers in somesense, but those that have the Conniver archetype maybe abusive to their childer and ghouls, or they may bemore persuasive in gaining support for their machinations. never more than half-full, though it may be damn nearempty when other people are involved. Many Internet junkies, pop-culture fans, and Generation Xers areCurmudgeons. Kindred Curmudgeons see elder oppression or spoiled neonates running amok behind everydevelopment in undead society, and may or may notrise beyond acerbic grumbling to change any problemsthey perceive.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever someonedoes something specific and negative, just like you saidthey would. You must predict and quantify this failure aloud, such as by warning, “The Prince is goingto fuck us on this one,” or “Just watch, that Malkavian’s ghoul is going to do something really reckless.”You may simply whisper your prophecy of grief to theStoryteller if you wish, instead of announcing it to thewhole troupe.

--Dabbler
	*The Dabbler is interested in everything but focuseson nothing. He flits from idea to idea, passion to passion, and project to project without actually finishinganything. Others may get swept up in the Dabbler’senthusiasm, and be left high and dry when he moveson to something else without warning. Most Dabblershave high Intelligence, Charisma, and Manipulationratings, but not much in the way of Wits or Stamina.Toreador are often Dabblers, particularly those afflicted with the derisive sobriquet “Poseurs.” — Regain a point of Willpower whenever you tricksomeone into doing something for you, or when youconvince someone to help you against their own bestinterests. — Regain Willpower whenever you find a new enthusiasm and drop your old one completely.

--Creep Show
	*You strive to shock and disgust those around you withgratuitous acts and ostentatiously “evil” mannerisms.You realize, of course, that it’s all show and merely away to intimidate and control others. Outsiders, on theother hand, think you are the Devil incarnate, and yourevel in this image. Shock-rockers, rebellious teenagers, circus freaks, and the attention-starved exemplifythe Creep Show Archetype.

--Deviant
	*The Deviant is a freak, ostracized from society byunique tastes or beliefs that place her outside the mainstream. Deviants are not indolent rebels or shiftless“unrecognized geniuses”; rather, they are independentthinkers who don’t quite fit in the status quo. Deviant Archetypes often feel that the world stands againstthem, and as such reject traditional morality. Somehave bizarre tastes, preferences, and ideologies. Extremists, eccentric celebrities, and straight-up weirdoesare Deviant Archetypes. Kindred deviants may observeheretical or outlawed habits like diablerie or deferenceto elders, and they may well go Anarch or Autarkisinstead of having to constantly defend their subversionof Traditions or Sect customs. — Regain a point of Willpower whenever someonerecoils from you in horror or otherwise reacts in fear.

--Curmudgeon
	*A Curmudgeon is bitter and cynical, finding flawsin everything and seeing little humor in life or unlife.He is often fatalistic or pessimistic, and has very littleesteem for others. To the Curmudgeon, the glass is — Regain a point of Willpower any time you are ableto flout social mores without retribution.

--Director
	*To the Director, nothing is worse than chaos anddisorder. The Director seeks to be in charge, adopting a “my way or the highway” attitude on matters ofdecision-making. The Director is more concerned withbringing order out of strife, however, and need not betruly “in control” of a group to guide it. Coaches, teachers, and many political figures exemplify the DirectorArchetype. Kindred Directors may be simple advocatesof established codes, or they may prove instrumental intearing down corrupt existing orders to make way fornew leaders or factional movements.— Regain a point of Willpower when you influenceor aid a group or influential individual in the completion of a difficult task.

--Enigma
	*Your actions are bizarre, puzzling, and inexplicableto everyone except yourself. Your strangeness may be aresidual effect from your Embrace, or the most effectiveway for you to carry out your work. To the rest of theworld, however, your erratic actions suggest that you’reeccentric if not completely crazy. Conspiracy theorists,deep-cover agents, and Jyhad fanatics all live up to theEnigma Archetype— Regain a point of Willpower whenever someoneis completely perplexed or baffled by one of your actions that later turns out to be a fruitful endeavor.

--Eye of the Storm
	*Despite your calm appearance, chaos and havocseems to follow you. From burning cities to emotionalupheaval, death and destruction circle you like albatrosses. For you, unlife is a never-ending trial with uncertainty around every corner. Gang leaders, politicalfigures, and other influential individuals exemplify theEye of the Storm Archetype.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever a ruckus,riot, or less violent but equally chaotic phenomenonoccurs around you.

--Fanatic
	*The Fanatic has a purpose, and that purpose consumes his existence. The Fanatic pours himself intohis cause, and he may even feel guilty for undertakingany objective that deviates from his higher goal. Tothe Fanatic, the end justifies the means — the cause ismore important than those who serve it. Players whochoose Fanatic Archetypes must select a cause for their character to further. Revolutionaries, zealots, and sincere firebrands are all examples of Fanatic Archetypes.Kindred Fanatics are often champions for or againsta particular aspect of undead society, such as equalityamong all vampires, the extermination of Anarchs, orstamping infernalism out of the Sword of Caine.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever you accomplish some task that directly relates to your cause.

--Gallant
	*Gallants are flamboyant souls, always seeking attention and the chance to be the brightest star. Gallantsseek the company of others, if only to earn their adoration. Attention drives the Gallant, and the chase isoften as important as its end. Nothing excites a Gallant so much as a new audience to woo. Performers,only children, and those with low self-esteem oftenembody the Gallant Archetype. Kindred Gallants maybe Harpies, or they may have enormous herds of dotingthralls.— Regain a Willpower point whenever you successfully impress another person. Ultimately, the Storyteller is the arbiter of how much you dazzle someone, evenin the case of other players’ characters.

--Guru
	*Your enlightenment draws others to you. You maybe a mentor of a particular Path of Enlightenment, apriest with the Church, or merely an idealist. Whatever the case, your presence motivates and moves othersto engage in spiritual or ideological pursuits. Your peersview you as calm, centered, and “with it,” even whenyou are preaching violence as a means to an end. Cultleaders, Zen masters, and Pack Priests are examples ofGurus.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever someoneseeks out your help in spiritual matters and your guidance moves that individual to an enlightened actionthat he normally would not have taken. Also, regain apoint of Willpower whenever you achieve an epiphanythat relates to your personal philosophy.

--Idealist
	*The Idealist believes — truly, madly, deeply — insome higher goal or morality. The object of his idealism may be something as pragmatic as the Camarilla’seventual triumph or as amorphous as the ultimategood, but the belief is there. Idealists are frequently either very new to the Blood or very old, and many seek Golconda as the final expression of their idealism. Inthe meantime, an Idealist tries to reconcile his beliefswith the demands of vampiric existence, often actingcontrary to his self-interest in doing so.— Regain a point of Willpower any time an actionin pursuit of your ideals furthers your goals and bringsyour ideal closer to fruition.

--Judge
	*The Judge perpetually seeks to improve the system.A Judge takes pleasure in her rational nature and ability to draw the right conclusion when presented withfacts. The Judge respects justice, as it is the most efficient model for resolving issues. Judges, while they pursue the “streamlining” of problems, are rarely visionary,as they prefer proven models to insight. Engineers, lawyers, and doctors are often Judge Archetypes. KindredJudges might gravitate toward enforcement roles in local society, or they might be a voice of reason in anotherwise radical coterie.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever you correctly solve a problem by considering the evidencepresented, or when one of your arguments unites dissenting parties.

--Loner
	*Even in a crowd the Loner sticks out, because heso obviously does not belong. Others view Loners aspariahs, remote, and isolated, but in truth the Lonerprefers his own company to that of others. For whatever reason, the Loner simply disdains others, and thisfeeling is often reciprocated. Criminals, radicals, andfree thinkers are all Loner Archetypes. Kindred Lonersoften hail from one of the rugged individualist Clanslike the Gangrel or Ravnos, and they have a proclivity for ending up Autarkis by dint of not giving a shitwhat some up-his-own-ass Prince or Archbishop saysis a law.— Regain a point of Willpower when you accomplish something by yourself, yet which still benefits thecoterie in some way.

--Martyr
	*The Martyr suffers for his cause, enduring his trialsout of the belief that his discomfort will ultimately improve others’ lot. Some Martyrs simply want the attention or sympathy their ordeals engender, while others are sincere in their cause, greeting their oppositionwith unfaltering faith. Many revolutionaries, staunch idealists, and outcasts are Martyr Archetypes. KindredMartyrs are often associated with reform movementsamong Kindred society, but rarely as figureheads —and they need not necessarily be on the pro-reformside of the issue.— Regain a point of Willpower when you suffersome amount of damage or loss of a definable resourcefor your ideals or another’s immediate gain.

--Masochist
	*The Masochist exists to test his limits, to see howmuch pain he can tolerate before he collapses. Hegains satisfaction in humiliation, suffering, denial, andeven physical pain. The Masochist defines who he isby his capacity to feel discomfort — he rises each nightonly to greet a new pain. Certain extreme athletes, urban tribalists, and the clinically depressed exemplifythe Masochist Archetype. Kindred Masochists mightbe overtly self-mortifying horrors who play to theirBeast’s self-destructive whims, or they may be ambitious taskmasters, as with a coterie leader who refusesto accept failure and pushes his own limits in his exacting schemes.— Regain one point of Willpower when your ownsuffering leads to some tangible gain for you, and twopoints of Willpower whenever you experience pain ina truly unique way.

--Monster
	*The Monster knows she is a creature of darknessand acts like it. Evil and suffering are the Monster’stools, and she uses them wherever she goes. No villainy is below her, no hurt goes uninflicted, and no lieremains untold. The Monster does not commit evil forits own sake, but rather as a means to understand whatshe has become. Unstable individuals, those who havebeen greatly wronged or harmed, and those defined associopaths may come to display characteristics of theMonster Archetype. Kindred Monsters include manySabbat, degenerate Kindred elders, and those who never adjust properly to what they have become after theEmbrace.— Malignant deeds reinforce the Monster’s senseof purpose. Monster characters should pick a specificatrocity, regaining Willpower whenever they indulgethat urge. For example, a tempter regains Willpowerfor luring someone into wickedness, while an apostateearns back Willpower for causing another to doubt herfaith. Pick a destiny and fulfill it. Storytellers, be careful with how you reward this Archetype. For example, a player who chooses violence as an atrocity shouldn’trecoup Willpower in every combat, but perhaps onlyin those that involve wanton destruction, or evencause degeneration checks due to their gruesomeness.Monster is a difficult Archetype for which to offer rewards, and those rewards should come as a result of thecharacter challenging his own descent into the Beast,not rampaging ungovernably because he gains an everrefreshing pool of bonus dice.

--Pedagogue
	*The Pedagogue knows it all, and desperately wants toinform others. Whether through a sense of purpose ora genuine desire to help others, the Pedagogue makessure his message is heard — at length, if necessary.Pedagogue Archetypes may range from well-meaningmentors to verbose blowhards who love to hear themselves talk. Instructors, the overeducated, and “veterans of their field” are all examples of Pedagogue Archetypes. Kindred Pedagogues include watchdogs ofthe Traditions, ideological Anarchs, and perhaps eventhat rare soul seeking Golconda who wants companyon the journey. — Regain one point of Willpower whenever you seeor learn of someone who has benefited from the wisdom you shared with them.

--Penitent
	*The Penitent exists to atone for the grave sin she commits simply by being who she is. Penitents have eitherlow self-esteem or traumatic past experiences, and feelcompelled to “make up” for inflicting themselves uponthe world. Penitent Archetypes are not always religiousin outlook; some truly want to scourge the world of thegrief they bring to it. Repentant sinners, persons withlow self-esteem, and remorseful criminals are examplesof the Penitent Archetype. Penitent Kindred includethose who scourge themselves of the Beast like medievalmonks, vampires who stand up for the rights of mortals,and those who subsist entirely on the vitae of animals.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever you feelthat you have achieved absolution for a given grievance. This redemption should be of the same magnitude as the transgression — the greater the crime, thegreater the penance. The Storyteller is the ultimate arbiter of what constitutes a reasonable act of reparation.

--Perfectionist
	*Perfectionist Archetypes demand flawless execution.A half-hearted job gives the Perfectionist no satisfaction, and she expects the same degree of commitmentand attention to detail from others that she demandsfrom herself. Although the Perfectionist may be exacting, the achievement of the end goal drives her, andoften those for whom she is responsible. Prima donnas, artists, and architects exemplify the PerfectionistArchetype. A Perfectionist Kindred might be a zealous Sabbat member who expects more than his packcan consistently deliver, or she may be a moralist whosometimes applies her own high standards of Humanityto others in her coterie.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever you accomplish your goal without any demonstrable flaw orimpediment, and regain a Willpower point wheneveryou motivate another character to succeed as a resultof your own shining example.

--Rebel
	*The Rebel is a malcontent, never satisfied with thestatus quo or the system as it is. He hates the very ideaof authority and does everything in his power to challenge and undermine it. Perhaps the Rebel truly believes in his ideals, but it is just as likely that he bearsauthority figures some ill will over a “wrong” done tohim in the past. A Rebel may hate institutions categorically, or she may be consumed with opposition towarda single particular authority. Teenagers, insurrectionists, and nonconformists all exemplify the Rebel Archetype. Rebel Kindred certainly include the Sabbat,Anarchs, and temperamental Brujah, but also haveroom for Tremere who chafe at the rigid Clan hierarchy or neonates who deplore their sires.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever your actions adversely affect your chosen opposition. Rebelsmay oppose the government, the Church, a vampirePrince, or any other holder of authority. The playershould choose whom or what his character rebelsagainst when he adopts this Archetype. Storytellersshould take rebellion against “all authority” with agrain of salt, and apply the Willpower reward for sucha broad concept to only greater and greater actions ofinsurgency.

--Rogue
	*Only one thing matters to the Rogue: herself. Toeach his own, and if others cannot protect their claims, they have no right to them. The Rogue is not necessarily a thug or bully, however. She simply refuses tosuccumb to the whims of others. Rogues almost universally possess a sense of self-sufficiency. They have theirown best interests in mind at all times. Prostitutes,capitalists, and criminals all embody the Rogue Archetype. Kindred Rogues include diablerists, Autarkis, anda Primogen who puts his Clan’s opportunities beforethe supremacy of the Kindred as a whole.— Regain a point of Willpower when your self-centered disposition leads you to profit, materially or otherwise. At the Storyteller’s discretion, accumulatinggain without exposing your own weaknesses may letyou regain two points of Willpower. As well, you mayregain a point of Willpower when your efforts benefitthe group to which you belong when that benefit comesat the expense of another group.

--Sadist
	*You exist to inflict pain and suffering upon others.Killing is too easy; torture is the best way to truly harma person, and you seek the slowest, most painful meansto push others to the ultimate limits. Pain — others’pain — gives you immense pleasure. Drill sergeants,jilted ex-lovers, and some of the terminally derangedmay all embody the Sadist Archetype at one time oranother; sadism is rare enough to appear only in aberrant cases, rather than reliably in any type or class ofperson.— Regain a point of Willpower whenever you inflictpain upon someone for no reason other than your ownpleasure.

--Scientist
	*To a Scientist, existence is a puzzle which she canhelp to reassemble. A Scientist logically and methodically examines her every situation and maneuver, looking for logical outcomes and patterns. This is not to saythat the Scientist is always looking for a scientific orrational explanation, but rather she examines her surroundings rigorously and with a critical eye. The system a Scientist attempts to impose on the world maybe completely ludicrous, but it is a system, and shesticks by it.— Regain Willpower any time a logical, systematicapproach to a problem helps you solve it, or information gathered logically is of use in another, similar situation.

--Sociopath
	*All inferior beings both living and undead shouldbe exterminated in order to bring about a harmonious existence. You likely feel no remorse when youkill (depending upon your Humanity or Path). Onthe contrary, you are doing a glorious deed for society.Some vampires are critical of your violent nature, butyou sometimes manage to sway them with argumentslike, “Darwin would agree that I’m only helping naturealong!” and, “Only the strongest shall survive!”— Regain Willpower whenever you are the greatestcontributor to a body count after everything has settleddown. This count includes times when you are the onlykiller, and it needs not result from a massive combat —like killing every member of a movie audience or gunning down defenseless patrons in a bank robbery.

--Soldier
	*The Soldier is not a blindly loyal follower. Whileshe exists for orders, she does not adhere to them unquestioningly. More independent than a Conformistbut too tied into the idea of command to be a Loner, the Soldier applies her own techniques to others’goals. While she may seek command herself someday,her ambitions lie within the established hierarchy andstructure. The Soldier has no compunctions about using whatever means necessary to do what needs to bedone, so long as the orders to do so came from the rightplace.— Regain a point of Willpower when you achieveyour orders’ objectives. The more difficult the ordersare to fulfill, the better it feels to accomplish them. AtStoryteller discretion, pulling off a spectacular successor fulfilling a lengthy mission may well be worth additional Willpower points.

--Survivor
	*No matter what happens, no matter the odds or opposition, the Survivor always manages to pull through.Whether alone or with a group, the Survivor’s utterrefusal to accept defeat often makes the difference between success and failure. Survivors are frustrated byothers’ acceptance of “what fate has in store” or willingness to withstand less than what they can achieve.Outcasts, street folk, and idealists may well be SurvivorArchetypes. A Kindred Survivor might be a renegadeunder a Prince’s edict of Blood Hunt, an erstwhileBishop forced from power, or a lowly Nosferatu whofinds himself kicked from hunting ground to huntingground with no acknowledged claim of domain. — Regain one point of Willpower whenever you survive a threatening situation through tenacity, or whenyour counsel causes someone else to persist in spite ofopposition.

--Thrill-Seeker
	*The Thrill-Seeker lives for the rush of danger. Unlike those of arguably saner disposition, the ThrillSeeker actively pursues hazardous and possibly deadlysituations. The Thrill-Seeker is not consciously suicidal or self-destructive — he simply seeks the stimulation of imminent disaster. Gangbangers, petty thieves,and exhibitionists are all examples of the Thrill-SeekerArchetype. Kindred Thrill-Seekers might habituallybreak the Masquerade just to see if they’ll get caught,they might maintain contacts in a rival Clan or Sect,or they might actively plot a Prince’s overthrow just tosee if they can pull it off.— Regain a point of Willpower any time you succeed at a dangerous task that you have deliberately undertaken. Thrill-Seekers are not stupid, however, andthe Storyteller may choose not to reward a player whoheedlessly sends her character into danger for the soleintent of harvesting Willpower.

--Traditionalist
	*The orthodox ways satisfy the Traditionalist, whoprefers to accomplish her goals with time-tested methods. Why vary your course when what has worked inthe past is good enough? The Traditionalist finds thestatus quo acceptable, even preferable, to a change thatmight yield unpredictable results. Conservatives, judges, and authority figures are all examples of Traditionalist Archetypes. Traditionalist Kindred unsurprisinglylook to the Traditions as a behavior model, though afew Anarchs and elders may espouse a “traditionalism”that predates both Camarilla and Sabbat.— Regain a point of Willpower any time the provenways turn out to be the best. Also, regain a point ofWillpower any time you adhere to one of your previously espoused positions and it proves to be a wisecourse of action.

--Trickster
	*The Trickster finds the absurd in everything. No matter how grim life (or unlife) may become, the Tricksteralways uncovers a kernel of humor within it. Tricksters cannot abide sorrow or pain, and so they strive tolighten the spirits of those around them. Some Tricksters have even higher ideals, challenging static dogma by exposing its failures in humorous ways. Comedians,satirists, and social critics are examples of TricksterArchetypes. Kindred Tricksters may call attention tothe flaws in a leader’s policy, they may be glib-tongueddevil’s advocates who question the Traditions or ritaeof their Sect, or they may simply have an acute senseof the ironies of a world that makes vampiric predatorand mortal prey almost indistinguishable physically.— Regain a point of Willpower any time you manageto lift others’ spirits, especially if you are able to assuageyour own pain in the process.

--Visionary
	*The Visionary is strong enough to look beyond themundane and perceive the truly wondrous. Visionariestest accepted societal limits, and seek what few othershave the courage to imagine. The Visionary rarely findssatisfaction in what society has to offer; she prefers toencourage society to offer what it could instead of whatit does. Typically, society responds poorly to Visionaries, though it is they who are responsible for bringingabout progress and change. Philosophers, inventors,and the most inspired artists often have VisionaryNatures. Kindred Visionaries may want to plunge allmortals into vampiric thrall, they may adapt technologies that other, more static Kindred fear or overlook,or they may have a “better way” to coexist with othervampires than all of this Prince-and-Regent nonsense.— Regain a point of Willpower each time you areable to convince others to have faith in your dreamsand follow the course of action dictated by your vision. Note that gaining support is the key to a Visionary regaining Willpower. Success need not come to aVisionary, at least not with every step in changing thestructures in question. Her greatest successes may indeed come after her Final Death.

#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
#### Attributes
Every Vampire character has Attributes. They represent the basic potential of every person in the world, aswell as most other living (and unliving) things. Mostpeople have Attribute ratings between 1 (poor) and3 (good), though exceptionally gifted individuals mayhave ratings of 4 (excellent) or even 5 (peak humancapacity). Some vampire elders have higher ratingsstill, while other Kindred, like the hideously ugly Nosferatu, may have ratings supernaturally lower than thehuman minimum.

## Physical
Physical Attributes define the condition of a character’s body. They indicate how strong, agile, andresilient a character is. Physical Attributes should betaken as the primary category for an action-orientedcharacter.Vampires may use ingested blood to supernaturallyaugment their Physical (and only their Physical) Attributes. For more on this, see p. 268.

--Strength
	*Strength is the raw, brute power of a character. Itgoverns how much weight a character can lift, howmuch he can physically push, and how hard he canhit another character or object. The Strength Trait isadded to a character’s damage dice pool when he hitshis opponent in hand-to-hand combat. It is also usedwhen a character wishes to break, lift, or carry something, as well as when a character tries to jump a distance.
	1:You can lift 40 lbs (about 20kgs).
	2:You can lift 100 lbs (closeto 50 kgs).
	3:You can lift 250 lbs (a littleover 100 kgs).
	4:You can lift 400 lbs(close to 200 kgs).
	5:You can lift 650 lbs(nearly 300 kgs) and crush skulls likegrapes.
	@Specialties: Never Lets Go, Powerful Arms, Reservesof Strength, Vicious
  
--Dexterity
	*The Dexterity Attribute measures a character’s general physical prowess. It encompasses the character’sspeed, agility, and overall quickness, as well as indicating the character’s ability to manipulate objects withcontrol and precision. Also included under Dexterity’s heading are hand-eye coordination, reflexes, andbodily grace.
	1:You are clumsy and awkward.Put that gun down before you hurtyourself.
	2:You’re no clod, but you’reno ballerina, either.
	3:You possess some degree ofathletic potential.
	4:You could be an acrobatif you wished.
	5:Your movements areliquid and hypnotic — almostsuperhuman.
	@Specialties: Precise, Swift, Feline Grace, Lightning Reflexes

--Stamina
	*The Stamina Trait reflects a character’s health,toughness, and resilience. It indicates how long a character can exert herself and how much punishment shecan withstand before suffering physical trauma. Stamina also includes a bit of psychic fortitude, indicating acharacter’s grit and tenacity.
	1:You bruise in a stiff wind.
	2:You are moderately healthyand can take a punch or two.
	3:You are in good shape andrarely fall ill.
	4:You can run — andperhaps win — any marathon youchoose.
	5:Your constitution istruly herculean.
	@Specialties: Tireless, Determined, Tough as Nails,Vigorous


## Social
Despite their often lonely fates, Kindred use humansociety like building blocks to advance their schemes.Social Attributes delineate a character’s appearance,charm, and ability to interact with society. TheseTraits are paramount in determining a character’s firstimpressions, personal dynamics, and relations withother individuals.

--Charisma
	*Charisma is a character’s ability to entice and pleaseothers through her personality. Charisma comes intoquestion when a character tries to win another character’s sympathies or encourage others to trust her.Charisma reflects the power of a character’s charm andinfluence. It governs a character’s ability to convinceothers to see her point of view. This Attribute doesn’tnecessarily indicate how the character is charismatic,whether she’s a silver-tongued charmer or a grinningbully. (These should come across through roleplayingand specialties.)
	1:There’s something a littlesketchy about you.
	2:You are generally likable and have several friends.
	3:People trust you implicitly.
	4:You have significant personal magnetism.
	5:Entire cultures couldfollow your lead.
	@Specialties: Graceful, Smooth Talker, Forceful, Urbane, Witty, Eloquent, Hustler

--Manipulation
	*Manipulation measures a character’s ability for selfexpression in the interests of getting others to shareher outlook or follow her whims. In short, it’s gettingothers to do what she wants. Manipulation comes into play when a character tries to influence or subtly guideanother’s behavior. Manipulation is used to trick, bluff,fast-talk, and railroad other characters. Whether or notthe characters in question actually like the manipulator is irrelevant (this is why Manipulation differs fromCharisma). After all, a skilled motivator can even employ the talents of people who hate her.Manipulation is a dangerous affair, though it is waymany Kindred primarily affect the world around them.Failed attempts at manipulation often earn the ire ofthe would-be patsy. Botching a Manipulation roll mayadd a name to the character’s list of enemies.People are manipulated every day, and typically ignore it. (“Would you run to the store for me?”) If thefact is brought to their attention, however, many people become quite defensive. Manipulation can be themost powerful tool in a Kindred’s repertoire, but failurecan be disastrous. Characters with high Manipulationratings are often distrusted by those around them.
	1:A person of few (often ineffectual) words.
	2:You can fool some of thepeople some of the time, just likeanybody else.
	3:You never pay full price.
	4:You could be apolitician or cult leader.
	5:“Of course I’ll tell thePrince I was the one who tried tostake him!”
	@Specialties: Persuasive, Seductive, Well-Reasoned,Misdirection, Conjurer of “Facts”

--Appearance
	*The Appearance Attribute is a measure of howwell a character makes a first impression. This may beconventional “attractiveness,” but it can also be theeffect of distinctive features, an exotic mien, an airof confidence, distinctive posture, a flair for dressingwell — anything remarkable upon initial observationcan contribute to a character’s Appearance. Indeed,Appearance is the amalgamation of many descriptivepersonal characteristics. Appearance is subconsciousand instinctual — it appeals to the lower levels of thepsyche, so it shapes first impressions and the nature ofmemories thereafter.This Trait is useful for getting potential vessels toheed your beckoning across a crowded dance floor. In situations in which first impressions are paramount, orthat involve people who view Appearance as very important, a character may have no more dice in a Socialdice pool than her Appearance rating. Thus, it is critically important to either look your best or get to knowpeople before you start trying to convince them to firebomb the Justicar’s haven.
	1:Your clothes stink, you turnpeople off right away, or you’re justdamned ugly.
	2:You don’t stand out in acrowd, for better or for worse.
	3:“Let me buy you a drink.
	4:People go out of thei rway to make your acquaintance. 
	5:People never forget you.
	@Specialties: Unconventional Looks, Photogenic,Fashion Sense, Unforgettable Face, Memorable Pose

## Mental 
Attributes define a character’s epistemiccapacities, including such aspects as memory, intelligence, awareness of one’s surroundings, and the abilityto think, learn, and react.

--Perception
	*Perception measures a character’s ability to observehis environment. This may involve a conscious effort,such as searching an area, but it is more often intuitive, as the character’s keen senses notice somethingout of the ordinary. Perception is a sensitivity to one’ssurroundings, and is seldom present in the cynical orjaded (who have seen it all before).Perception is used to determine whether or not acharacter understands a given situation or detects anenvironmental stimulus. It can warn a character of ambushes, distinguish a clue from a pile of refuse, or uncover any other hidden or overlookable detail, whetherphysical or otherwise.
	1:Perhaps you are absurdly selfabsorbed, perhaps merely an airhead.In any event, watch out for that car!
	2:The very subtle evades you,but you’re aware of the bigger picture.
	3:You perceive moods, textures,and small changes in yourenvironment.
	4:Almost nothing escapesyour notice.
	5:You instantly observethings almost imperceptible to humansenses.
	@Specialties: Attentive, Insightful, Careful, Discerning, Tactical

--Intelligence
	*The Intelligence Attribute refers to a character’sgrasp of facts and knowledge. It also governs a character’s ability to reason, solve problems, and evaluatesituations. Intelligence also includes critical thinkingand flexibility of thought.Intelligence does not include savvy, wisdom, or common sense, as those are properties of the character’spersonality, not Traits. Even the smartest charactermay be too foolish to realize the thugs who want to“borrow” her car keys are up to no good. Characters with low Intelligence aren’t necessarily stupid (though they might be); they are just uneducated or simple thinkers. Likewise, characters with highIntelligence aren’t all Einsteins; they may be betterat rote memorization or have particularly keen judgment.
	1:Not the sharpest knife in thedrawer.
	2:Smart enough to realizeyou’re normal.
	3:More enlightened than themasses.
	4:You’re not just bright,you’re downright brilliant.
	5:Certified genius.
	@Specialties: Book Knowledge, Creative, Analytical,Problem Solver, Subject Authority

--Wits
	*The Wits Trait measures the character’s ability tothink on her feet and react quickly to a certain situation. It also reflects a character’s general cleverness.Characters with low Wits ratings are thick and mentally lethargic, or maybe gullible and unsophisticated.By contrast, characters with high Wits Traits almostalways have a plan immediately and adapt to their surroundings with striking expedience. Characters withhigh Wits also manage to keep their cool in stressfulsituations.
	1:Pull my finger.
	2:You know when to bet orfold in poker.
	3:You are seldom surprised orleft speechless.
	4:You’re one of the peoplewho make others think, “Ooh, Ishould have said...” the next day.
	5:You think and respondalmost more quickly than you can act.
	@Specialties: Getting the Jump on Others, Witty BonMots, Changes in Strategy, Ambushes

#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
#### Abilities
As mentioned before, Abilities are the Traits usedto describe what you know and what you’ve learnedto do. Whereas Attributes represent your raw potential, Abilities represent the ways you’ve learned to usethat potential. You may not need anything but brutestrength to smash through a door — but if you’re tryingto use sheer muscle power to force an engine part intoplace without breaking anything, you’d better knowsomething about mechanics. When rolling dice, you’llprobably pair an Ability with an appropriate Attribute,in order to properly depict the combination of potential and know-how that’s necessary for getting thingsdone.There are 30 Abilities: 10 Talents, 10 Skills, and10 Knowledges. Each Ability typically covers a broadrange of aptitudes. For certain Abilities (Expression,Crafts, Performance, Academics, Law, Science, andTechnology), it is best to pick a specialty (p. 96), evenif the character’s rating in the Ability is not yet 4 orhigher. Thus, a character with the Crafts Skill is generally versed in handiwork of all sorts, but might beparticularly adept at auto mechanics.

## Talents
Talents describe what you intuitively know, whatyou can do without coaching or instruction. The onlyway to improve your Talents is through direct experience — with the exception of a very few cases (such asstudying a text on Jeet Kune Do to learn a single dotof Brawl), these things can’t be learned from a book oran Internet video. If you try an action involving a Talent your character doesn’t possess, there’s no penalty toyour basic Attribute dice pool. Talents are so intuitive that virtually everyone can execute them with somedegree of capacity.

--Alertness
	*This is your basic knack for noticing things that goon around you, even when you’re not actively lookingfor them. Alertness describes the attention you pay tothe outside world, whether otherwise occupied or not.This Talent is typically paired with Perception, and isbest used when sensing physical stimuli (as opposed tomoods or clues).
	1:You’re no mindless drone.
	2:Habitual eavesdropper
	3:Competent: You keep a sharp eye onyour surroundings.
	4:Expert: Whether from paranoia orgood sense, you are rarely caught offguard.
	5:Master: Your senses are on par withthose of a wild animal.
	&Possessed by: Hunters, Bodyguards, Security Personnel, Journalists, Burglars
	@Specialties: Noises, Eavesdropping, Fine Details,Hidden Weapons, Crowds, Forests, Animals

--Athletics
	*This Talent represents your basic athletic ability, aswell as any training you might have had in sports orother rigorous activities. Athletics concerns all formsof running, jumping, throwing, swimming, sports, andthe like. However, Athletics doesn’t cover basic motoractions such as lifting weights, nor does it govern athletic feats covered by another Ability (such as Melee).
	1:You had an active childhood.
	2:High-school athlete
	3:Talented lifelongamateur
	4:Professional athlete
	5:Olympic medalist
	&Possessed by: Athletes, Hobbyists, Park Rangers,Jocks, Kids
	@Specialties: Swimming, Rock Climbing, Acrobatics,Dancing, Parkour, specific sports

--Awareness
	*Awareness is an instinctual reaction to the presenceof the supernatural. It differs from Alertness (whichmeasures sensitivity to mundane events) and Occult (which covers actual knowledge about the supernatural). Usually, only supernatural creatures have accessto this particular Talent, but some unique mortals havea sense that something is strange in the world (such asthose with True Faith – see p. 372).Characters with Awareness sometimes get hunches,chills, or sudden flashes of inspiration when they arenear supernatural creatures, objects, or events. Thisinsight is purely subconscious, and knowing that something’s wrong doesn’t mean that the character knowswhat it is. To get more specific information, the Kindred will need to use Occult or a particular power –Awareness only makes the vampire more receptive tothe presence of the unusual.A vampire can use Awareness deliberately if he suspects that something is supernatural, but more oftenthe Storyteller can ask for an Awareness roll to determine whether a vampire notices a strange event that’snot immediately visible.
	1:Once in a while, you get thefeeling that something isn’t right.
	2:You sometimes get strangevibes from a particular direction orvague area (like a building).
	3:You can walk into aroom and know that somethingunusual is going on within.
	4:If you concentrate, you cansense whether a someone in a groupof people or a collection of objects issupernatural.
	5:You instinctually know ifsomething or someone is mundane orsupernatural.
	&Possessed by: Psychics, New Agers, Mystics, Paranormal Researchers
	@Specialties: Ghostly Activity, Mystical Objects,Someone’s In My Head, Debunking

--Brawl
	*The Brawl Talent represents how well you fight intooth-and-nail situations. This Talent represents skillin unarmed combat, whether from formal martial artstraining or simply from plenty of experience. Effective brawlers are coordinated, resistant to pain, quick,strong, and mean. The willingness to do whatever ittakes to hurt your opponent wins plenty of fights.
	1:You were picked on as a kid.
	2:You’ve participated in theoccasional barroom tussle.
	3:You’ve fought regularlyand routinely, and generally walkedaway in better shape than youropponents.
	4:You could be a seriouscontender on the MMA circuit.
	5:Somewhere on the Internet,there’s a video of you taking downthree men in four seconds.
	&Possessed by: Military, Police, Roughnecks, Thugs
	@Specialties: Dirty Fighting, Strikes, Throws, Submission Holds, specific martial arts or combat styles

--Empathy
	*You understand the emotions of others, and can sympathize with, feign sympathy for, or play on such emotions as you see fit. You are adept at discerning motive,and might be able to discern when someone’s lying toyou. However, you may be so in tune with other people’s feelings that your own emotions are affected.
	1:You lend the occasionalshoulder to cry on.
	2:You can sometimesliterally feel someone else’s suffering.
	3:You have a keen insightinto other people’s motivations.
	4:It’s almost impossible to lie toyou.
	5:The human soul conceals nomysteries from you.
	&Possessed by: Social Workers, Parents, Actors,Psychologists, Detectives, Seducers, Mediums, BestFriends
	@Specialties: Emotions, Insight, Motives, Gaining Trust

--Expression
	*This is your ability to get your point across clearly,whether through conversation, poetry, or even in 140characters or fewer. Characters with high Expressioncan phrase their opinions or beliefs in a manner thatcannot be ignored (even if their opinions are misinformed or worthless). They might also be talented actors, skilled at conveying moods or communicatingemotion with every gesture. Additionally, this Talent epresents your ability for poetry, creative writing, orother literary art forms. For many elders, Expressionis the subtle art of crafting a satirical epigram capableof socially crippling one’s longtime rival. For youngerKindred, Expression may well be the key to convincing thirty stake-wielding Anarchs to converge on theSheriff’s private hunting ground with the right textmessage. You can choose a specialty in Expression,even at less than 4 dots.
	1:Your talent has matured pastcrude poetry on notebook paper
	2:You could lead a collegedebate team.
	3:You could be a successfulwriter.
	4:Your work is Pulitzer material.
	5:Steve Jobs asks you for inputon his next mobile device.
	&Possessed by: Actors, Writers, Poets, Politicians,Journalists, Web Personalities, Rabble-Rousers
	@Specialties: Acting, Poetry, Fiction, Impromptu,Conversation, Social Media

--Intimidation
	*Intimidation takes many forms, from outright threatsand physical violence to mere force of personality. Itneedn’t be course or callous, and a well-placed intimidating word under the right circumstances might wellbe called “diplomacy” in certain circles. You know theright method for each occasion, and can be very… persuasive.
	1:Shady teenager
	2:Skinhead thug
	3:Drill sergeant
	4:Your air of authority cowscasual passersby.
	5:You can frighten off viciousanimals.
	&Possessed by: Bullies, Anonymous, Military Officers,Bouncers, Gangsters, Sabbat
	@Specialties: Veiled Threats, Pulling Rank, Physical Coercion, Blackmail, Internet

--Leadership
	*You are an example to others and can inspire them todo what you want. Leadership has less to do with manipulating people’s desires than it does with presenting yourself as the sort of person they want to follow. Anyone can lead a group into some sort of conflict; a goodleader can get them back out intact. This Talent is usually paired with Charisma rather than Manipulation.
	1:Captain of your Little Leagueteam
	2:Student body president
	3:An effective CEO
	4:Presidential material
	5:You could be beloved dictatorof a nation.
	&Possessed by: Politicians, Princes, Managers, Executives, Military Officers, Police
	@Specialties: Oratory, Compelling, Friendly, Open, Noble, Military, Multimedia

--Streetwise
	*The streets can provide a lot of information or moneyto those who know the language. Streetwise allows youto blend in unobtrusively with the local scene, pick upgossip, understand slang, or even dabble in criminaldoings.
	1:You know who’s holding.
	2:You’re accorded respect onthe street.
	3:You could head your owngang.
	4:You have little to fear in eventhe worst neighborhoods.
	5:If you haven’t heard it, ithasn’t been said.
	&Possessed by: Criminals, Homeless People, Reporters, Clubgoers, Savvy Detectives, Neonates
	@Specialties: Fencing, Illegal Drugs, Illegal Weapons, Free Wifi, Gangs, Being On the Guest List, LocalSlang

--Subterfuge
	*You know how to conceal your own motives and project what you wish. Furthermore, if you can root out otherpeople’s motives, you can then use those motives againstthem. This Talent defines your talent for intrigue, secrets, and double-dealing. Mastery of Subterfuge canmake you the ultimate seducer or a brilliant spy.
	1:You tell the occasional whitelie.
	2:Vampire
	3:Criminal lawyer
	4:Deep-cover agent
	5:You’re the very last personanyone would suspect.
	&Possessed by: Politicians, Lawyers, Vampires, Teenagers, Con Men, Pick-up Artists
	@Specialties: Seduction, Impeccable Lies, FeigningMortality, the Long Con

--Hobby Talent
	*This category encompasses anything that the Storyteller deems to be mainly self-taught and is usually(though not always) more active than intellectual.Storytellers should first examine the list of existingTalents to determine if a particular activity mightfall under one of those (for example, Swimming andClimbing would be specialties of Athletics).
	1:You’ve dabbled.
	2:You’ve got a good grasp ofyour hobby’s basics.
	3:Other practitionersregard you as fairly skilled andcompetent.
	4:You are familiar with thesubtle nuances and applications ofyour Talent.
	5:You could write a book onwhat you do. Perhaps you alreadyhave.
	!Suggested Hobby Talents: Carousing, Diplomacy,Fortune Telling, Negotiation, Scrounging

#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
#### Skills
Skills are Abilities learned through training, apprenticeships, or other instruction. If you try to perform anaction involving a Skill in which you have no rating,your difficulty is increased by one. An unskilled workerjust isn’t as effective as someone who might have lowerAttributes but a better understanding of what the procedure entails.

--Animal Ken
	*You can understand animals’ behavior patterns. ThisSkill allows you to predict how an animal might reactin a given situation, train a domesticated creature, oreven try to calm or enrage animals.
	1:You can get a domesticatedhorse to let you pet it.
	2:You can housebreak apuppy.
	3:You could train a seeingeye dog.
	4:Circus trainer
	5:You can tame wild beastswithout benefit of supernaturalpowers.
	&Possessed by: Farmers, Animal Trainers, Zookeepers, Veterinarians, Pet Owners, Domitors
	@Specialties: Dogs, Attack Training, Big Cats, Horses,Farm Animals, Falconry

--Crafts
	*This Skill covers your ability to make or fix thingswith your hands. Crafts allows you to work in fieldssuch as carpentry, leatherworking, weaving, or evenmechanical expertise such as car repair. You can evencreate lasting works of art with this Skill, depending onthe number of successes you achieve. You must alwayschoose a specialization in Crafts, even though you retain some skill in multiple fields.
	1:High school wood shop
	2:You’re starting to developyour own style.
	3:You could start your ownshop.
	4:You wrote instructionmanuals on your field ofspecialization.
	5:Your craftsmanship andinsight is virtually without peer.
	&Possessed by: Mechanics, Artisans, Artists, Designers, Inventors, Back-to-the-Land Types
	@Specialties: Pottery, Sewing, Home Repair, Carpentry, Appraisal, Carburetors

--Drive
	*You can drive a car, and maybe other vehicles as well.This Skill does not automatically entail familiarity withcomplicated vehicles such as tanks or 18-wheelers, anddifficulties may vary depending on your experiencewith individual automobiles. After all, helming a station wagon doesn’t prepare you for double-clutching aMaserati at 100 miles per hour.
	1:You know how to work anautomatic transmission.
	2:You can drive a stick shift.
	3:Professional trucker
	4:NASCAR daredevil or tankpilot
	5:Whether it’s a Fiat or aFerrari, you can make it sing.
	&Possessed by: Cabbies, Truckers, Race Car Drivers,Automotive Show Hosts, Rebels
	@Specialties: Off-Road, Motorcycles, High Speed,Heavy Traffic, Avoiding Traffic Cops

--Etiquette
	*You understand the nuances of proper behavior, inboth mortal society and Kindred culture. In many cases, knowing how to broach a topic is as important asthe discussion itself, and a person with poor etiquettewill never have an opportunity to make herself heardbecause she doesn’t know when or how to interject.This Skill is used during meetings, haggling, seduction,dancing, dinner etiquette, and all forms of diplomacy.
	1:You know when to keep yourmouth shut.
	2:You’ve been to a black-tieevent or two.
	3:You know your wayaround even obscure silverware.
	4:Her Majesty would consideryou charming.
	5:If the right people came todinner, you could end wars — or startthem.
	&Possessed by: Diplomats, Travelers, High Society,Executives, Kindred of Status
	@Specialties: At Elysium, Business, High Society,Sabbat Protocol

--Firearms
	*Executing a mortal with a sword starts investigations.Clawing someone to ribbons tears the edges of the Masquerade. So Cainites adapt, and many have devotedtheir energies to learning how to kill with guns. ThisSkill represents familiarity with a range of firearms,from holdout pistols to heavy machine guns. Further,someone skilled in Firearms can clean, repair, recognize, and accurately fire most forms of small arms. ThisSkill is also used to unjam guns (Wits + Firearms).
	1:You had a BB gun as a kid.
	2:You while away theoccasional hour at the gun club.
	3:You’ve survived afirefight or two.
	4:You could pick off people fora living.
	5:You’ve been practicing sincethe debut of the Winchester.
	&Possessed by: Anarchs, Neonates, Policemen, Military Personnel, Survivalists, Hunters
	@Specialties: Fast-Draw, Gunsmithing, Pistols, Marksmanship, Revolvers, Shotguns

--Larceny
	*This Skill entails familiarity with the tools and techniques for the sorts of physical manipulation typicallyassociated with criminal activity. Picking locks, manualforgery, safecracking, simple hotwiring, various formsof breaking and entering, and even sleight-of-hand allfall under the auspices of Larceny. Larceny is useful notonly for theft, but also for setting up “the unbeatablesystem” or deducing where a thief broke in. This skilldoes not confer any aptitude with advanced security oranti-crime technologies such as video surveillance oralarm systems — those are covered by the TechnologyKnowledge.
	1:You can pick a simple lock.
	2:You could run a shell gamehustle on the corner.
	3:You can open a standardlocked window from the outside.
	4:You can “retool” a passport orID card.
	5:You could get into (or outof…) a multinational bank’s centralvault.
	&Possessed by: Burglars, Security Consultants, Policemen, Car Thieves, Street Magicians
	@Specialties: Safecracking, Misdirection, Lockpicking, Hotwiring, Pickpocketing

--Melee
	*As the Kindred maxim runs, “Guns mean nothingto a lifeless heart”.  A blade is often worth far more, asis the skill to use it properly. Melee covers your abilityto use hand-to-hand weapons of all forms, from swordsand clubs to esoteric martial-arts paraphernalia such as sai or nunchaku. And, of course, there is always theutility of the wooden stake.…
	1:You know the right way tohold a knife.
	2:You may have been in theoccasional street fight.
	3:You could make a collegefencing team.
	4:You could keep order in thePrince’s court.
	5:Your enemies would ratherface a SWAT team than your blade.
	&Possessed by: Assassins, Gang Members, MartialArtists, Police, Duelists
	@Specialties: Knives, Swords, Improvised Weaponry,Riposte, Disarms

--Performance
	*The Performance Skill governs your ability to perform artistic endeavors such as singing, dancing, acting, or playing a musical instrument. You are almostcertainly specialized in one field, although true virtuosos may be talented in many forms of performance. ThisSkill represents not only technical know-how, but theability to work an audience and enrapture them withyour show. As with Crafts, you must choose a specialty,even though this Skill also imparts a general sense forwatching and responding to your audience’s mood regardless of medium.
	1: You could sing in the churchchoir.
	2: Your Internet videos haveover a hundred thousand views.
	3: You almost always have agig booked.
	4: You have the talent to be anational sensation.
	5: You are a virtuoso withoutpeer.
	&Possessed by: Musicians, College Students, Actors,Ballerinas, Mimes
	@Specialties: Dancing, Singing, Rock and Roll, Acting, Guitar Solos, Drunken Karaoke

--Stealth
	*This Skill is the ability to avoid being detected,whether you’re hiding or moving at the time. Stealth is often tested against someone else’s Perception + Alertness. This Ability is, for obvious reasons, highly usefulin stalking prey. In many cases, Stealth is also used toconceal items, whether on one’s person or somewherein the environment.
	1:You can hide in a darkenedroom.
	2:You can shadow someonefrom streetlight to streetlight.
	3:You have little difficultyfinding prey from evening to evening.
	4:You can move quietly overdry leaves.
	5:Nosferatu elder
	&Possessed by: Burglars, Assassins, Kindred, Spies,Reporters, Commandos
	@Specialties: Hiding, Silent Movement, Shadowing,Crowds

--Survival
	*Although vampires have little to fear from starvation and exposure, the wilderness can still be dangerous to a Cainite. This Skill allows you to find shelter,navigate your way to civilization, track prey, establish amakeshift haven, and possibly even avoid supernaturalthreats like werewolves that also prowl the World ofDarkness. Note that Survival need not be used only inareas considered “wilderness.” There’s plenty of Survival that goes into getting by in various parts of modern cities.
	1:You can survive a nightspent outside.
	2:You’ve “roughed it” on aregular basis.
	3:You can separate poisonor spoilage from edible forage.
	4:You could live for months inthe challenging environment of yourchoice.
	5:You could get dropped nakedinto the Andes and do all right foryourself.
	&Possessed by: Scouts, Soldiers, Outdoors Enthusiasts, Survivalists, Hunters
	@Specialties: Tracking, Woodlands, Jungle, StreetLife, Hunting, Urban Exploration

--Professional Skill
	*This category encompasses anything that the Storyteller deems to be a taught Ability and is primarilyactive in application. Storytellers should first examinethe list of existing Skills to determine if a particulartask might fall under one of those (e.g. Tracking wouldbe a specialty of Survival).
	1:You’ve apprenticed.
	2:You have a handle on thebasics.
	3:You could make a living,although not a fortune, doing whatyou do.
	4:You know the more esotericuses of your Skill, and are rarely ata loss.
	5:You are an acknowledgedauthority in your chosen field ofendeavor.
	!Suggested Professional Skills: Blacksmith, Cooking, Fast-Draw, Forgery, Game Playing, Gunsmith,Navigation, Torture

#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
#### Knowledges
Knowledges involve the application of the mind, notthe body. Consequently, Knowledge Abilities are mostoften paired with Mental Traits. (It’s possible to rollCharisma + Academics, or even Stamina + Medicine,but such things are pretty rare.) The following descriptions speak of Knowledge levels in collegiate terms,although formal schooling is just one way to improvea Knowledge. Indeed, Knowledges can be self-taught,and the World of Darkness is home to any number ofautodidacts.If you don’t have any dots in a Knowledge, you cannoteven attempt a roll involving it unless the Storytellergives explicit permission (such as where common triviais concerned). If you don’t know Spanish, you can’t tryholding a conversation en español on your wits alone.

--Academics
	*This catchall Knowledge covers the character’s erudition in the humanities: literature, history, art, philosophy, and other “liberal” arts and sciences. A character with dots in Academics is generally well roundedin these fields, and at high levels may be considered anexpert in one or more areas of study. Not only can thisKnowledge impress at salons and other Elysium functions, but it can also offer valuable clues to certain past— and future — movements in the Jyhad. If you like,you can choose a specialty for Academics even at lessthan 4 dots.
	1:You’re aware that 1066 isn’ta Beverly Hills area code.
	2:You can quote from theclassics, identify major culturalmovements, and expound on thedifference between Ming andMoghul.
	3:You could get a paperpublished in a scholarly journal.
	4:Professor emeritus
	5:Scholars worldwide acknowledge you as one of theforemost experts of your time.
	&Possessed by: Professors, Literati, Topical Bloggers,Elders
	@Specialties: Poststructuralism, Impressionist Painting, Imperial Rome, Color Theory, Linguistics

--Computer
	*This Knowledge represents the ability to operate andprogram computers, including mobile devices. MostComputer use also imparts a degree of Internet awareness (if not savvy).
	1:You can navigate touchscreen and traditional point-and-clickGUIs.
	2:You know your way aroundvarious applications and the Internet.
	3:You know what to do with atext command prompt.
	4:You can make a verycomfortable living as a consultant.
	5:You have all the SDKs andcomprehend data structures for astunning variety of programminglanguages.
	&Possessed by: Hackers, Office Workers, Programmers, Data Processors, Students
	@Specialties: “The YouTubes,” Computer Languages,Internet, Database Administration, HCI, Viruses, specific devices and programs

--Finance
	*You know the ins and outs of commerce, from evaluating an item’s relative worth to keeping up withcurrency exchange rates. This Knowledge can be invaluable when brokering items, running numbers, orplaying the stock market. Sufficiently high levels inFinance allow you to raise your standards of living to avery comfortable level.
	1:You’ve taken a few businessclasses.
	2:You have some practicalexperience and can keep your booksfairly neat.
	3:You’d make a fine stockbroker.
	4:Corporations follow yourfinancial lead.
	5:You could turn a $20 billinto a fortune.
	&Possessed by: Executives, Upper Class, Stockbrokers, Accountants, Fences, Drug Dealers, Smugglers
	@Specialties: Stock Market, Laundering, Appraisal,Foreign Currencies, Accounting, Fencing, Corporations, Federal Bailouts

--Investigation
	*You’ve learned to notice details others might overlook, and might make an admirable detective. ThisKnowledge represents not only a good eye for detail,but also an ability to do research and follow leads. Suchresearch may include Internet searches or more specificresearch techniques like hitting the law books and periodicals archives at the library.
	1:You can parse a broad Websearch for clues.
	2:Police officer
	3:Private detective
	4:Federal agent
	5:Sherlock Holmes
	&Possessed by: Detectives, Mystery Buffs, Policemen,Stalkers
	@Specialties: Forensics, Shadowing, Search, Discolorations, Database Research

--Law
	*The Law Knowledge represents a knowledge of bothlegal statutes and proper procedures for enforcingthem. Law can be useful for filing suits, avoiding lawsuits, or getting out of jail. What’s more, the Kindredkeep their own laws, and more than one vampire hassaved his own unlife by deftly exploiting a loopholein one of the Traditions. The Law Knowledge has anynumber of specialties, and a player may choose one forher character when she takes this Ability, representingboth her field of experience and a general sense for howthe legal system (especially in her locality) functions,though this is not mandatory.
	1:You’ve paid a traffic ticketand know whether to plead guilty,not guilty, or nolo contendere nexttime.
	2:You’re either studying for orjust passed the bar exam.
	3:You can make a living of thepractice, and probably do.
	4:If you’re not partner yet,you will be soon.
	5:You could find the loopholesin the Devil’s contracts.
	&Possessed by: Lawyers, Police, Judges, Detectives,Legislators
	@Specialties: Criminal, Suits, Courtroom Protocol, Contracts, Police Procedure, the Traditions, the Code of Milan

--Medicine
	*You have an understanding of how the human body— and to a lesser extent the vampiric body — works.This Ability covers knowledge of medicines, ailments,first-aid procedures, and diagnosis or treatment of disease. Medicine is of great use to those Kindred with aninterest in repairing, damaging, or reworking the human body.
	1:You’ve taken a CPR course.
	2:Premed or paramedic
	3:General practitioner
	4:You can performtransplants.
	5:You are respected by theworld’s medical community as apioneer.
	&Possessed by: Med Students, Doctors, Lifeguards,Parents, Paramedics, Tzimisce
	@Specialties: Organ Transplants, Emergency Care,Poison Treatments, Pathology, Pharmaceuticals, theKindred Condition

--Occult
	*You are knowledgeable in occult areas such as mysticism, curses, magic, folklore, and particularly vampirelore. Unlike most other Knowledges, Occult does notimply a command of hard facts. Much of what youknow may well be rumor, myth, speculation, or hearsay. However, the secrets to be learned in this field areworth centuries of sifting legend from fact. High levelsof Occult imply a deep understanding of vampire lore,as well as a good grounding in other aspects of the occult. At the very least, you can discern what is patentlyfalse.
	1:You’ve got a blog about theeerie and the disturbing.
	2:There seems to be someunsettling truth to some of the rumorsyou’ve heard.
	3:You’ve heard a lot andactually seen a little for yourself.
	4:You can recognizeblatantly false sources and makeeducated guesses about the rest.
	5:You know most of the basictruths about the hidden world.
	&Possessed by: Occultists, The Superstitious, NewAgers, Tremere
	@Specialties: Kindred Lore, Rituals, Infernalism,Witches, Noddist Lore

--Politics
	*You are familiar with the politics of the moment, including the people in charge and how they got there.This Knowledge can aid you in dealing with or influencing mortal politicians, or even offer some insightinto the local Cainite power structure. The PoliticsKnowledge includes the ability to practically navigatevarious bureaucracies, as it assumes that certain organizational structures and relationship currencies areuniversal.
	1:Activist; you can pay aspeeding ticket online.
	2:Political science major;you know how to file a request forinformation.
	3:Campaign manager or talkradio host; the clerk will help younavigate the forms you need tocomplete and tell you who needs theduplicates.
	4:Senator; “We’re notsupposed to show this to anyonewithout press credentials, so don’tquote me.”
	5:You could choose the nextPresident of the United States. “Sure,here are the keys to the file morgue.Turn off the light when you leave.”
	&Possessed by: Activists, Politicians, Lawyers, vampires of all sorts
	@Specialties: City, State, Federal, Bureaucracy, Dogma, Radical, Camarilla

--Science
	*You have at least a basic understanding of most of thephysical sciences, such as chemistry, biology, physics,and geology. This Knowledge can be put to all formsof practical use. In most cases, a player should select a specialty to reflect a focus for her character’s scientificstudies, but this isn’t strictly necessary.
	1:You know most of the highschool basics.
	2:You’re familiar with themajor theories.
	3:You could teach high-schoolscience.
	4:You’re fully capable ofadvancing the knowledge in your field.
	5:Your Nobel Prize is waitingfor you.
	&Possessed by: Scientists, Students, Researchers,Teachers, Engineers, Technicians, Pilots
	@Specialties: Chemistry, Biology, Geology, Physics,Astronomy

--Technology
	*The Technology Knowledge represents a broad acumen with electronics, computer hardware, and devicesmore elaborate than “machines,” which fall under theCrafts Skill. If it has a processor, a transistor, or an integrated circuit — if it’s electronic rather than electrical— manipulating it uses the Technology Knowledge.This is the wide-ranging Ability used to build one’sown computer, install (or subvert) a security system,repair a mobile phone, or kitbash a shortwave radio.You must always choose a specialization in Technology, even though you possess some skill in multiplefields.
	1:You can perform simplemodifications or repairs.
	2:You could make your livingin assembly or repair.
	3:You can design newtechnologies from a set of objectiverequirements.
	4:For you, it’s not, “Canthis be done?” but “How can this bedone?”
	5:A visionary in the field; youshape how people interact with theirworld through devices.
	&Possessed by: Engineers, Scientists, Defense Contractors, the Cable Guy
	@Specialties: Telecom, Computers, Security, Communications, Improvised Solutions, Industrial Espionage

--Expert Knowledge
	*Like Hobby Talent and Professional Skill, this is acatchall category. An Expert Knowledge is anythingthat is primarily intellectual or mental in nature andmust be studied. Storytellers should first examine thelist of existing Knowledges to determine if a particularfield of expertise might fall under one of those (e.g. Forensics would be a specialty of Investigation).
	1:You’ve taken anundergraduate course or read a fewbooks.
	2:You may have minored inthe field.
	3:You might hold a degree andare well versed in what’s beenwritten.
	4:You are well-versed inwhat hasn’t been written.
	5:You know the hiddenmysteries of your field and are averitable font of information.
	!Suggested Expert Knowledges: Archaeology, GameTheory, Military Science, Psychology



#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
--Allies
	*Allies are mortals who support and help you — family, friends, or even a mortal organization that owes yousome loyalty. Although allies aid you willingly, without coaxing or coercion, they are not always availableto offer assistance; they have their own concerns andcan do only so much for the sake of your relationship.However, they might have some useful BackgroundTraits of their own, and could provide you with indirect access to their contacts, influence, or resources.Allies are typically persons of influence and powerin your home city. They can be of almost any sort, depending on what your Storyteller will allow. You mayhave friends in the precinct morgue, at a prominentblog, among the high society of local celebrities, or ata construction site. Your Allies might be a clan of nomads who move their mobile home camp around thearea, or they might be a family of generations of policeofficers. You may even count the mayor himself amongyour friends, depending on how many dots you spendon this Trait. Your Allies are generally trustworthy(though they probably don’t know that you’re a vampire, or even that vampires exist). However, nothingcomes for free. If you wind up drawing favors from yourfriend in the Cosa Nostra, he’ll probably ask you to dohim a favor in kind in the future. This often leads tothe beginning of a story.…Allies may be pooled among a coterie of characters.
	1:One ally of moderate influence andpower
	2:Two allies, both of moderate power
	3:Three allies, one of whom is quiteinfluential
	4:Four allies, one of whom is veryinfluential
	5:Five allies, one of whom is extremelyinfluential

--Alternate Identity
	*You maintain an alternate identity, complete withpapers, birth certificates, or any other documentationyou desire. Only a few may know your real name oridentity. Your alternate persona may be highly involved in organized crime, a member of the oppositeSect, a con artist who uses alternate identities for hergame, or you may simply gather information about theenemy. Indeed, some vampires may know you as one individual while others believe you to be someone elseentirely.
	1:You are new at this identity game.Sometimes you slip and forget yourother persona.
	2:You are well grounded in youralternate identity. You areconvincing enough to play the partof a doctor, lawyer, funeral salesman,drug-smuggler, or a capable spy.
	3:You have a fair reputation as youralternate persona and get name-recognition in the area where youhave infiltrated.
	4:Your alternate identity has respectand trust within your area ofinfiltration.
	5:You command respect in your area ofinfiltration, and you may even haveaccumulated a bit of influence. Youhave the trust (or at least therecognition) of many powerfulindividuals within your area.

--Black Hand Membership
	*This Background is for Sabbat characters only.You are a member of the feared Black Hand, thebody of soldiers and assassins that serves the Sabbatfervently. Having this Background indicates that youare a full-fledged member of the organization, and youhave all the responsibilities and benefits that accompany membership.You may call upon members of the Black Hand toaid you, should you ever need it. Of course, this ability is a two-way street, and other Hand members maycall upon you to aid them. Thus, you may find yourselfassigned to perform assassinations, lend martial aid, oreven further the political ends of the Hand as a diplomat or spy. You may also be required to attend crusadesthat take you away from your pack. All members of theBlack Hand must heed the call of another Hand member, especially the superiors of the faction.Being a member of the Black Hand is a prestigiousmatter, and other members of the Sabbat respect theorganization. When dealing with other Sabbat, shouldyou choose to reveal your affiliation with the Hand,you may add your rating in this Background to anySocial dice pools, even after Status or other Abilities have been taken into account. Most Hand members,however, choose not to reveal their allegiance. TheBlack Hand is also remarkably adept at hunting downSabbat who claim membership in the Sect but do nottruly belong — liars, beware. office, while your minor contacts might include beatcops, DMV clerks, club bouncers, or members of anonline social network. You don’t need to detail thesevarious “passing acquaintances” before play. Instead,to successfully get in touch with a minor contact, youshould roll your Contacts rating (difficulty 7). You canreach one minor contact for each success. Of course,you still have to convince them to give you the information you need, assuming they can get it.
	1:You are a grunt; you may call uponone Black Hand member once perstory.
	2:You are known and respected in theBlack Hand; you may call upon twoBlack Hand members once per story.
	3:You are held in the Black Hand’sregard; you may call upon five BlackHand members once per story.
	4:You are a hero among members ofthe Black Hand; you may call uponseven Black Hand members twice perstory (but you’d better have just cause— if it seems you’re becomingsoft, you may lose points in thisBackground). You may also lead largenumbers of Hand members into actionshould it ever become necessary.
	5:You are part of Black Hand legend;you may call upon 12 Black Handmembers twice per story (but see thepreceding caution). You may also leadlarge numbers of Hand members intoaction should it ever becomenecessary. The Seraphim may evenseek your counsel on matters ofimport.

--Contacts
	*You know people all over the city. When you startmaking phone calls around your network, the amountof information you can dig up is impressive. Ratherthan friends you can rely on to help you, like Allies,Contacts are largely people whom you can bribe, manipulate, or coerce into offering information. You alsohave a few major Contacts — associates who can giveyou accurate information in their fields of expertise.You should describe each major contact in some detailbefore the game begins.In addition to your major contacts, you also have anumber of minor contacts spread throughout the city.Your major contact might be in the district attorney’s. Contacts may be pooled within the characters’ coterie.
	1:One major contact
	2:Two major contact
	3:Three major contact
	4:Four major contact
	5:Five major contact

--Domain
	*Domain is physical territory (usually within thechronicle’s central city) to which your character controls access for the purpose of feeding. Some Kindredrefer to their domain as hunting grounds, and mostjealously guard their domains, even invoking the Tradition of the same name to protect their claims. Aspart of this Background, the character’s claim to thedomain is recognized by the Prince or some other Kindred authority in the city where it is located.The Kindred who claims the domain can’t keep theliving inhabitants from going about their business,nor does she exercise any direct influence over them,but she can keep watch herself and mind their comings and goings. She can also have Allies or Retainersspecifically look for unfamiliar vampires and alert herwhen they find some.Domain refers specifically to the geography (in mostcases a neighborhood or street) and properties on it,as opposed to the people who may dwell there (whichis the emphasis of Herd). Domain plays an importantpart in Kindred society — vampires who lack significant Domain seldom earn respect — but it isn’t an automatic entitlement to status among the Damned.You may designate one or more dots in Domain toincrease the security of your character’s territory ratherthan its size. Each dot so assigned to security providesa +1 difficulty penalty to efforts to intrude into the domain by anyone your character hasn’t specifically al- lowed in, and a -1 difficulty bonus to efforts by yourcharacter to identify and track intruders in the domain.A Domain of one dot’s size and two dots’ security, forinstance, is small but quite resistant to intrusion, as opposed to a Domain rating of three dots’ size with noextraordinary security.Each level of Domain reduces the difficulty of hunting checks by one for your character and those whomthe character allows in. It also adds to your starting (notmaximum) blood pool. If you use the domain securityoption, each dot of domain security raises the difficultyof hunting checks by one for uninvited vampires. Seep. 259 for more information on hunting.Domain (both size and security) can be used withpooled Background points.
	1:A single small building, such as asingle-family home or a socialestablishment — enough for a basichaven.
	2:A church, factory, warehouse,mid-rise, or other large structure —a location with ready but easilycontrollable access to the outsideworld.
	3:A high-rise, city block, or animportant intersection — alocation or area that offers areas forconcealment as well as controlledaccess.
	4:A sewer subsection, a network ofservice tunnels, the enclave of homeson a hill overlooking the city —a place with inherently protectivefeatures, such as an isolated mountainroad, bridge-only access, or vigilantprivate security force.
	5:An entire neighborhood, an ethnicsubdivision like “Chinatown” or“Little Italy,” or a whole suburb.
	As noted previously, characters in a coterie canshare their domain resources for better results. Six toeight dots secure all of a small town or a distinct cityregion as a domain. Ten to 15 dots secure an importantbut not geographically huge city sector, such as “thedocks,” or “Highland Park.” A large city itself mightbe a hundred-plus Domain points, as with Atlanta,Dallas, Geneva, or Baghdad. A city such as New York,London, Paris, Rome, Sao Paolo, or Shanghai wouldrequire many hundreds of Domain points.

--Fame
	*You enjoy widespread recognition in mortal society,perhaps as an entertainer, writer, or athlete. Peoplemay enjoy just being seen with you. This gives you allmanner of privileges when moving in mortal society,but can also attract an unwanted amount of attentionnow that you’re no longer alive. The greatest weaponfame has to offer is the ability to sway public opinion — as modern media constantly proves. Fame isn’talways tied to entertainment: A heinous criminal ina high-profile trial probably has a certain amount offame, as do a lawmaker and a scientist who has made apopularized discovery. This Background is obviously a mixed blessing. Youcan certainly enjoy the privileges of your prestige —getting the best seats, being invited to events you’dotherwise miss, getting appointments with the elite— but you’re sometimes recognized when you’d rathernot be. However, your enemies can’t just make you disappear without causing an undue stir, and you find itmuch easier to hunt in populated areas as people flockto you (reduce the difficulties of hunting rolls by onefor each dot in Fame). Additionally, your Storytellermight permit you to reduce difficulties of certain Socialrolls against particularly star-struck or impressionablepeople.
	1:You’re known to a select subculture— local club-goers, industry bloggers,or the Park Avenue set, for instance.	
	2:Random people start to recognizeyour face; you’re a minor celebritysuch as a small-time criminal or alocal news anchor.
	3:You have greater renown; perhapsyou’re a senator or an entertainer whoregularly gets hundreds of thousandsof YouTube hits.
	4:A full-blown celebrity; your name isoften recognized by the averageperson on the street.
	5:You’re a household word. Peoplename their children after you.

--Generation
	*This Background represents your Generation: thepurity of your blood, and your proximity to the FirstVampire. A high Generation rating may representa powerful sire or a decidedly dangerous taste for diablerie. If you don’t take any dots in this Trait, youbegin play as a Thirteenth Generation vampire. Seep. 270 for further information.
	1:Twelfth Generation: 11 blood pool,can spend 1 blood point per turn
	2:Eleventh Generation: 12 blood pool,can spend 1 blood point per turn
	3:Tenth Generation: 13 blood pool,can spend 1 blood point per turn
	4:Ninth Generation: 14 blood pool,can spend 2 blood points per turn
	5:Eighth Generation: 15 blood pool,can spend 3 blood points per turn

--Herd
	*You have built a group of mortals from whom you canfeed without fear. A herd may take many forms, fromcircles of kinky clubgoers to actual cults built aroundyou as a god-figure. In addition to providing nourishment, your herd might come in handy for minor tasks,though they are typically not very controllable, closelyconnected to you, or particularly skilled (for more effective pawns, purchase Allies or Retainers). YourHerd rating adds dice to your rolls for hunting; seep. 259 for further details.Players may purchase pooled Herd with Backgroundpoints.
	1:Three vessels
	2:Seven vessels
	3:15 vessels
	4:30 vessels
	5:60 vessels

--Influence
	*You have pull in the mortal community, whetherthrough wealth, prestige, political office, blackmail, orsupernatural manipulation. Kindred with high Influence can sway, and in rare cases even control, the political and social processes of human society. Influencerepresents the sum of your opinion- or policy-swayingpower in your community, particularly among the police and bureaucracy. In some cases, cultivating Influence is a path to generating Resources (see below). age, which can lead to a number of interesting stories.A mentor typically remains aloof, giving you useful information or advice out of camaraderie, but will abandon you without a thought if you prove an unworthy ortroublesome protégé. Some rolls may require you to use Influence in placeof an Ability, particularly when attempting to sway minor bureaucrats. It’s easier to institute sweeping changes on a local level than a worldwide scale (e.g., havingan “abandoned” building demolished is relatively easy,while starting a war is a bit more difficult). Influence can be used with pooled Backgroundpoints.
	1:Moderately influential; a factor in citypolitics
	2:Well-connected; a force in statepolitics
	3:Position of influence; a factor inregional politics
	4:Broad personal power; a force innational politics
	5:Vastly influential; a factor in globalpolitics

--Mentor
	*This Trait represents a Kindred or group of Kindredwho looks out for you, offering guidance or aid once ina while. A mentor may be powerful, but his power neednot be direct. Depending on the number of dots in thisBackground, your mentor might be nothing more thana vampire with a remarkable information network, ormight be a centuries-old creature with tremendous influence and supernatural power. He may offer advice,speak to the Prince or Archbishop on your behalf,steer other elders clear of you, or warn you when you’rewalking into situations you don’t understand.Most often your mentor is your sire, but it could wellbe any Cainite with an interest in your wellbeing. Ahigh Mentor rating could even represent a group oflike-minded vampires, such as the elders of the city’sTremere chantry or a Black Hand cell.Bear in mind that this Trait isn’t a “Get out of JailFree” card. Your mentor won’t necessarily arrive likethe cavalry whenever you’re endangered (and if shedoes, you’re likely to lose a dot or more in this Background after rousing her ire). What’s more, she mightoccasionally expect something in return for her patron-
	1:Mentor is an ancilla of littleinfluence, or a Ductus or Pack Priest.
	2:Mentor is respected: an elder orhighly-decorated veteran,for instance.
	3:Mentor is heavily influential, such asa member of the Primogen ora Bishop.
	4:Mentor has a great deal of power overthe city: a Prince or Archbishop,for example.
	5:Mentor is extraordinarily powerful,perhaps even a Justicar or Cardinal.

--Resources
	*Resources are valuable goods whose disposition yourcharacter controls. These assets may be actual cash,but as this Background increases, they’re more likelyto be investments, property, or earning capital of somesort — land, industrial assets, stocks and bonds, commercial inventories, criminal infrastructure, contraband, even taxes or tithes. Remember that vampiresdon’t need to arrange for any food except blood andtheir actual needs (as opposed to wants) for shelter arevery easily accommodated. Resources for vampires gomostly to pay for luxuries and the associated expensesof developing and maintaining Status, Influence, andother Backgrounds. A character with no dots in Resources may have enough clothing and supplies to getby, or she may be destitute and squatting in a refrigerator box under an overpass.You receive a basic allowance each month based onyour rating, so be certain to detail exactly where thismoney comes from, be it a job, trust fund or dividends.(Storytellers, decide for your locality and any relevanttime period what an appropriate amount of cash thismonthly allowance is.) After all, a Kindred’s fortunemay well run out over the course of the chronicle, depending on how well he maintains it. You can also sellyour less liquid resources if you need the cash, but thiscan take weeks or even months, depending on whatexactly you’re trying to sell. Art buyers don’t just popout of the woodwork, after all.Players may purchase Resources for their characterswith pooled Background points.
	1:Sufficient. You can maintain a typicalresidence in the style of the workingclass with stability, even if spendingsprees come seldom.
	2:Moderate. You can display yourselfas a member in good standing of themiddle class, with the occasional giftand indulgence seemly for a personof even higher station. You canmaintain a servant or hire specifichelp as necessary. A fraction of yourresources are available in cash,readily portable property (like jewelryor furniture), and other valuables(such as a car or modest home) thatlet you maintain a standard of livingat the one-dot level wherever youhappen to be, for up to six months.
	3:Comfortable. You are a prominentand established member of yourcommunity, with land and an owneddwelling, and you have a reputationthat lets you draw on credit at verygenerous terms. You likely have moretied up in equity and property thanyou do in ready cash. You canmaintain a one-dot quality ofexistence wherever you are withoutdifficulty, for as long as you choose.
	4:Wealthy. You rarely touch cash, asmost of your assets exist in tangibleforms that are themselves morevaluable and stable than papermoney. You hold more wealth thanmany of your local peers (if they canbe called such a thing). Whenearning your Resources doesn’tenjoy your usual degree of attention,you can maintain a three-dotexistence for up to a year, and a twodot existence indefinitely.
	5:Extremely Wealthy. You are themodel to which others strive toachieve, at least in the popular mind.Television shows, magazine spreads,and gossip websites speculate aboutyour clothing, the appointments ofyour numerous homes, and the luxury of your modes of transportation. Youhave vast and widely distributedassets, perhaps tied to the fates ofnations, each with huge staffs andconnections to every level ofsociety through a region. Youtravel with a minimum of three-dotcomforts, more with a little effort.Corporations and governmentssometimes come to you to buy intostocks or bond programs.

--Retainers
	*Not precisely Allies or Contacts, your retainers are servants, assistants, or other people who are your loyal andsteadfast companions. Many vampires’ servants are ghouls(p. 496) — their supernatural powers and blood bond-enforced loyalty make them the servants of choice. Retainersmay also be people whom you’ve repeatedly Dominateduntil they have no free will left, or followers so enthralledwith your Presence that their loyalty borders on blind fanaticism. Some vampires, particularly those with the Animalism Discipline, use animal ghouls as retainers.You must maintain some control over your retainers,whether through a salary, the gift of your vitae, or theuse of Disciplines. Retainers are never “blindly loyal nomatter what” — if you treat them poorly without exercising strict control, they might well turn on you.Retainers may be useful, but they should never beflawless. A physically powerful ghoul might be rebellious, inconveniently dull-witted, or lacking in practical skills. A loyal manservant might be physically weakor possess no real personal initiative or creativity. ThisBackground isn’t an excuse to craft an unstoppablebodyguard or pet assassin — it’s a method to bring morefully-developed characters into the chronicle, as wellas to reflect the followers for which the Kindred arenotorious. Generally, retainers are more like Renfieldthan Anita Blake. (If the player and Storyteller agree,a player may create a more competent single Retainerby combining more points in this Background, puttingmore eggs in one basket, as the saying goes.)Players can spend pooled Background points on Retainers.
	1:One retainer
	2:Two retainers
	3:Three retainers
	4:Four retainers
	5:Five retainers

--Rituals
	*This Background is for Sabbat characters only. You know the ritae and rituals of the Sabbat, and youcan enact many of them. This Background is vital to being a Pack Priest — without this Background, ritae willnot function. This Background is actually a supernaturalinvestment, drawing on the magic of the eldest Tzimiscesorcerers. Sabbat vampires who are not their pack‘spriests should have an outstanding reason for acquiringthis Background, as Pack Priests are loath to share theirsecrets with more secular members of the Sect. Someexample rituals include the Vaulderie (p. 288), as wellas those presented in the Appendix (p. 507).
	1:You know a few of the auctoritas ritae(your choice).
	2:You know some of the auctoritas ritae(your choice) and a few ignoblis ritae(your choice).
	3:You know all of the auctoritas ritaeand some ignoblis ritae (your choice).Also, you may create your ownignoblis ritae, given enough time(consult your Storyteller fordevelopment time and game effects).
	4:You know all the auctoritas ritaeand many ignoblis ritae (yourchoice). You may create your ownignoblis ritae, given enough time(consult your Storyteller fordevelopment time and game effects).You are also familiar with thefunctions of numerous regional andpack-specific ignoblis ritae, even ifyou cannot perform them.
	5:You know all the auctoritas ritae anddozens of ignoblis ritae (your choice).You may create your own ignoblisritae, given enough time (consultyour Storyteller for development timeand game effects). You are alsofamiliar with the functions of almostall regional and pack-specificignoblis ritae, even if you cannotperform them; if it’s been writtendown or passed around in lore,you’ve heard of it.

--Status
	*You have something of a reputation and standing(earned or unearned) within the local community ofKindred. Status among Camarilla society is as oftenderived from your sire’s status and the respect due yourparticular bloodline as it is by personal achievement.Among the Sabbat, status is more likely to stem fromthe reputation of your pack or the zeal of your outlook.Elders are known for having little respect for their juniors; this Background can mitigate that somewhat.High status within the Camarilla does not transfer toSabbat society (and will most likely make you a notorious target for your Sect’s rivals), and vice versa. Similarly, Autarkis generally have zero Status, unless theyhave somehow garnered so much power and attentionthat they are considered forces to be reckoned with.You may have occasion to roll your Status in conjunction with a Social Trait; this reflects the positive effectsof your prestige.Note that Caitiff characters may not purchase Statusduring character creation. Caitiff are the lowest of thelow, and any respect they achieve must be earned during the course of the chronicle.
	1:Known: a neonate/Pack Priest
	2:Respected: an ancilla/respected Ductus
	3:Influential: an elder/Templar
	4:Powerful: a member of the Primogen/a Bishop
	5:Luminary: a Prince/Archbishop

#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
#### Virtues
The Virtue Traits define a character’s outlook on unlife — they shape a character’s ethical code and describe his commitment to his chosen morality. Virtuesexist to help give a character a sense of being, not toforce players to portray their characters in a given way.However, Kindred are passionate creatures, and sometimes an act or situation may force a character to consider exactly how she should react to a given stimulus.Virtues come into play when a character faces an impending frenzy, does something ethically questionable(according to the character’s morality), or confrontssomething that terrifies or disturbs her.A vampire’s Virtues are determined by his Path, theparticular code of ethics he follows. Most CamarillaKindred maintain their mortal values and follow thePath of Humanity (referred to simply as “Humanity”),but other vampires often subscribe to radically different philosophies. Humanity, Paths, and the alternateVirtues are discussed in Chapter Seven.At character creation, a character’s Humanity isequal to his Conscience + Self-Control Virtues.

--Conscience
	*Conscience is a Trait that allows characters to evaluate their conduct with relation to what is “right” and“wrong.” A character’s moral judgment with Consciencestems from her attitude and outlook. Conscience iswhat prevents a vampire from succumbing to the Beast,by defining the Beast’s urges as unacceptable. Conscience factors into the difficulty of many rolls toavoid committing a transgression. Additionally, Conscience determines whether or not a character losesHumanity by committing acts that do not uphold hermoral code (see “Degeneration,” p. 309). A characterwith a high Conscience rating feels remorse for transgressions, while a character with a lower Consciencemay be more callous or ethically lax.Some vampires replace the Conscience Virtue withthe Virtue of Conviction (p. 314); unless your Storyteller tells you it’s OK to do this, assume Conscience isused.
	1:Uncaring
	2:Normal
	3:Ethical
	4:Righteous
	5:Remorseful

--Self-Control
	*Self-Control defines a character’s discipline and mastery over the Beast. Characters with high Self-Controlrarely succumb to emotional urges, and are thus able torestrain their darker sides more readily than characterswith low Self-Control.Self-Control comes into play when a character facesher Beast in the form of frenzy (p. 298). Self-Controlallows the character to resist the frenzy. Note: A character may never roll more dice to resist or control afrenzy than she has in her blood pool — it’s hard todeny the Beast when one’s mind clouds with hunger.As with Conscience, Self-Control can be replaced,in this case by the Virtue of Instinct (p. 314). Again,unless the Storyteller specifically says it’s all right to doso, assume Self-Control is used.
	1:Unstable
	2:Normal
	3:Temperate
	4:Hardened
	5:Total self-mastery

--Courage
	*All characters have a Courage Trait, regardless ofthe Path they follow. Courage is the quality that allowscharacters to stand in the face of fear or daunting adversity. It is bravery, mettle, and stoicism combined. Acharacter with high Courage meets her fears head-on,while a character of lesser Courage may flee in terror.
	1:Timid
	2:Normal
	3:Bold
	4:Resolute
	5:Heroic

--Willpower
	*Willpower measures a character’s inner drive and competence at overcoming unfavorable odds. Unlike other Traits,Willpower has both a permanent rating and a temporarypool of points. The rating is rolled or tested, while thepool is spent. When a player spends a point of a character’sWillpower, she should cross off the point from the Willpower pool (the squares), not the Willpower rating (thecircles). The rating stays constant — if a character needsto roll Willpower for some reason, she bases the roll on thepermanent rating. The pool is used up during the story.A character’s Willpower pool will likely fluctuate a greatdeal during the course of a story or chronicle. It decreasesby one point every time a player uses a Willpower point toenable his character to do something extraordinary, likemaintain self-control or gain an automatic success. Eventually, the character will have no Willpower left, and will nolonger be able to exert the effort he once could. A characterwith no Willpower pool is exhausted mentally, physically,and spiritually, and will have great difficulty doing anything,as he can no longer muster the energy to undertake an action or cause. Willpower points can be regained during thecourse of a story, though players are advised to be frugalwith their characters’ Willpower pools.The Willpower Trait is measured on a 1-10 scale rather than a 1-5 scale. At character creation, a character’sWillpower is equal to his Courage Virtue. Kindred use the Courage Virtue when faced with circumstances they endemically dread: fire, sunlight, TrueFaith. See the section on Rötschreck (p. 299) for mechanical systems dealing with character fear.
	1:Spineless
	2:Weak
	3:Unassertive
	4:Diffident
	5:Certain
	6:Confident
	7:Determined
	8:Controlled
	9:Iron-willed
	10:Unshakable

#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
--Experience

New Ability:3
New Discipline:10
New Path:7
Attribute:CRx4
Ability:CRx2
Clan Discipline:CRx5
Other Discipline:CRx7
Secondary Path:CRx4
Virtue:CRx2
Humanity or Path of Enlightenment:CR2
Willpower:CR

	!!*CR is the current rating of the trait
	*Caitiff have no Clan-based Disciplines, just as they have no Clan. For them, the cost of raising all Disciplines is the CRx6. This is both the curse and the blessing of being Clanless.
	**Increasing a Virtue through experience does not increase Traits based on that Virtue (Humanity,Path, Willpower).
	**New path or Secondary path can be only Necromancy or Thaumaturgy

#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
--Blood Pool
	*A character’s blood pool measures how much vitae thevampire has in his system. The blood pool comprises anumber of individual blood points. Each bloodpoint corresponds roughly to onetenth of the blood in an averageadult mortal (a pint or one-halfliter outside of a human).
	**A character at the Incapacitated health level is utterly immobilized and can take no action of any kindexcept healing himself with blood points (if the character is a vampire or ghoul) or swallowing blood thatis offered to him. A mortal who reaches this stage is abreath away from death; if she takes any more damage,she dies. If a Kindred suffers an aggravated wound (see p.285) after being Incapacitated, he dies the Final Death.A vampire at the Incapacitated health level with nomore blood in his body immediately sinks into torpor.
	**The maximum numberof blood points a vampiremay ingest is dictated by his Generation, as is the number of blood points he mayspend in a single turn. A vampire with zero blood points in hissystem is ravenously hungry and likelyin the throes of frenzy.More information on the blood poolis available in Chapter Six, under “Using Blood Pool” on p. 268.

--Health
	*The Health Trait measures a character’s physical condition, from perfecthealth to Final Death. As characters arewounded or otherwise impaired, theylose health levels, then regain them asthey heal. A character’s Health Traitconsists of seven different “health levels,” and each level applies a differentdice pool penalty to any actions takenby the person in question. A characterwho is Hurt subtracts one die from heraction dice pools, while a Crippled character subtracts five dice from her action dicepools. If health level penalties leave a character with no dice in a given dice pool, the charactercannot take that action. However, a point of Willpower can be spent to ignore wound penalties for one turn(see p. 282).
	**Note that dicepool penalties from health level loss apply only to actions. They do not apply to purely reflexivedice pools, such as soakdice, most Virtue checks, or Willpower rollsto abort to another action. If a character isWounded and suffers more non-aggravated damage, hemay still soak with his full Stamina (plus Fortitude, if hehas it). The health level penalties do apply to damagerolls for Strength-based attacks, but not for mechanicalweapons like firearms. Ultimately, this rule must be adjudicated by the Storyteller and common sense.

#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
#### Disciplines

--Animalism
	*The Beast resides within all creatures, from scuttling cockroaches to scabrous rats up through untamedwolves and even powerful Kindred elders. Animalismallows the vampire to amplify his intensely primordialnature. He can not only communicate with animals,but can also force his will upon them, directing suchbeasts to do as he commands. As the vampire grows inpower, he can even control the Beast within mortalsand other supernaturals.Beasts grow distinctly agitated in the presence of avampire who lacks this Discipline or the Skill of Animal Ken, often to the point of attacking or runningfrom the vampire. In contrast, vampires possessingAnimalism exude a dominant vibe to lower creatures,which attracts them.Animalism is commonly found with vampires of theGangrel and Nosferatu Clans. Manipulation and Charisma are important for the use of Animalism powers;the stronger the vampire’s personality, the more influence he has over animals.Storytelling Animals It can be difficult for the Storyteller to useanimals as something more than a plot devicewhenever a character tries to communicatewith them. It’s easy to fall back on monosyllabic speech and easily led creatures in orderto get the story moving along. And indeed,animals are simpler than humans – they focuson the present and are directed by instinctsinstead of complex goals and elaborateschemes. However, simple doesn’t necessarily mean stupid; animals need cunning andperception to survive, and both can be ofgreat use to a vampire master. Storytellers canmake animals dynamic, interesting charactersthat bring a lot to the chronicle, or they canquickly gloss over the finer points of theircharacterization to get back to the more pressing conflicts in the chronicle.Statistics for certain animals are found inChapter Nine, p. 388.
	1:Feral Whispers
	*This power is the basis from which all other Animalism abilities grow. The vampire creates an empathicconnection with a beast, thereby allowing him to communicate or issue simple commands. The Kindred lockseyes with the animal, transmitting his desires throughsheer force of will. Although it isn’t necessary to actually “speak” in chirps, hisses, or barks, some vampiresfind that doing so helps strengthen the connectionwith the animal. Eye contact must be maintained theentire time; if it’s broken, the Kindred must re-establish contact to continue communication.The simpler the creature, the more difficult it becomes to connect with the animal’s Beast. Mammals,predatory birds, and larger reptiles are relatively easyto communicate with. Insects, invertebrates, and mostfish are just too simple to connect with.Feral Whispers provides no guarantees that an animalwill want to deal with the vampire, nor does it ensurethat the animal will pursue any requests the vampiremakes of it. Still, it does at least make the creature better disposed toward the Kindred. The manner in whichthe vampire presents his desires to the animal often de- pends on the type of creature. A Kindred can often bullysmaller beasts into heeding commands, but he’s betteroff couching orders for large predators as requests.If the vampire successfully uses the power, the animal performs the command to the best of its ability andintellect. Only the very brightest creatures understandtruly complex directives (orders dealing with conditional situations or requiring abstract logic). Commands that the animal does understand remain deeplyimplanted, however, and guide its behavior for sometime.System: No roll is necessary to talk with an animal, but the character must establish eye contact (seep. 152) first. Issuing commands requires a Manipulation + Animal Ken roll. The difficulty depends on thecreature: Predatory mammals (wolves, cats, vampirebats) are difficulty 6, other mammals and predatorybirds (rats, owls) are difficulty 7, and other birds andreptiles (pigeons, snakes) are difficulty 8. This difficultyis reduced by one if the character speaks to the animalin its “native tongue,” and can be adjusted further bycircumstances and roleplaying skill (we highly recommend that all communication between characters andanimals be roleplayed). The number of successes the player achieves dictateshow strongly the character’s command affects the animal. One success is sufficient to have a cat follow anindividual and lead the character to the same location,three successes are enough to have a raven spy on atarget for weeks, and five successes ensure that a grizzlyferociously guards the entrance to the character’s wilderness haven for some months.The character’s Nature plays a large part in how heapproaches these conversations. The character mighttry intimidating, teasing, cajoling, or rationalizing. Theplayer should understand that he does not simply playhis character in these situations, but the Beast Withinas well.Using this power cannot force an animal to do something against its nature, or to force a creature to riskits life. While the aforementioned grizzly would standguard to the vampire’s haven and even fight for it, itwould not do so against obviously superior numbers orsomething overwhelmingly supernatural. A predatorybird might be convinced to harry a target, but woulddefinitely not hold ground. A docile dog or skittish catwould have no problem with reporting something ithad seen, but it wouldn’t enter combat unless given noother option — though it would likely agree to standand fight and then flee at the first opportunity, if aharsh Kindred demanded it.
	2:Beckoning
	*The vampire’s connection to the Beast grows strongenough that he may call out in the voice of a specifictype of animal — howling like a wolf, shrilling like araven, etc. This call mystically summons creatures ofthe chosen type. Since each type of animal has a different call, Beckoning works for only a single speciesat a time.All such animals within earshot are summoned, andsome percentage of them will heed the Beckoning if itis successful. While the vampire has no further controlover the beasts who answer, the animals who do arefavorably disposed toward him and are at least willingto listen to the Kindred’s concerns. (The vampire canthen use Feral Whispers on individual animals to command them, which may be at a decreased difficulty atStoryteller discretion.)System: The player rolls Charisma + Survival (difficulty 6) to determine the response to the character’scall; consult the table below. Only animals that can hear the cry will respond. If the Storyteller decides noanimals of that type are within earshot, the summonsgoes unanswered.The call can be as specific as the player desires. Acharacter could call for all bats in the area, for only themale bats nearby, or for only the albino bat with thenotched ear he saw the other night.
		@1 success	A single animal responds.
		@2 successes	One-quarter of the animals withinearshot respond.
		@3 successes	Half of the animals respond.
		@4 successes	Most of the animals respond.
		@5 successes	All of the animals respond.
	3:Quell the Beast
	*As the supreme predators of the natural world, Kindred are highly attuned to the bestial nature that dwellswithin every mortal heart. A vampire who developsthis power may assert his will over a mortal (animal orhuman) subject, subduing the Beast within her. Thisquenches all powerful, strong emotions — hope, fury,love, fear — within the target. The Kindred must either touch his subject or stare into her eyes to channelhis will effectively.Mortals who lack the fire of their inner Beasts arequite tractable, reacting to even stressful situationswith indifference. Even the most courageous or maddened mortal becomes apathetic and listless, while anespecially sensitive individual may suffer from a phobicderangement while under the power’s influence.Different Clans evoke this power in different ways,though the effect itself is identical. Tzimisce call itCowing the Beast, since they force the mortal’s weakerspirit to shrivel in fear before the Kindred’s own innerBeast. Nosferatu refer to it as Song of Serenity, sincethey soothe the subject’s Beast into a state of uttercomplacency, thus allowing them to feed freely. Gangrel know the power as Quell the Beast, and force themortal spirit into a state of fear or apathy as befits theindividual vampire’s nature.System: The player rolls Manipulation + Intimidation if forcing down the Beast through fear, or Manipulation + Empathy if soothing it into complacency. The difficulty of the roll is 7 in either case. This is an extended action requiring as many total successes as thetarget has Willpower. Failure indicates that the playermust start over from the beginning, while a botch indicates that the vampire may not affect that subject’sBeast for the remainder of the scene.When a mortal’s Beast is cowed or soothed, she canno longer use or regain Willpower. She ceases all struggles, whether mental or physical. She doesn’t evendefend herself if assaulted, though the Storyteller mayallow a Willpower roll if the mortal believes her life istruly threatened. To recover from this power, the mortal’s player rolls Willpower (difficulty 6) once per dayuntil she accumulates enough successes to equal thevampire’s Willpower. Kindred cannot be affected bythis power.Though a vampire’s Beast cannot be cowed with thisability, the Storyteller may allow characters to use the“soothing” variation of this power to pull a vampire outof frenzy. With three or more successes, the frenzyingvampire may roll again to pull herself out of frenzy, using the same difficulty as the stimulus that caused thefrenzy originally.
	4:Subsume the Spirit
	*By locking his gaze with that of an animal, the vampire may mentally possess the creature. Some elders believe that since animals don’t have souls but spirits, thevampire can move his own soul into the animal’s body.Many younger vampires think it a matter of transferring one’s consciousness into the animal’s mind. In either case, it’s agreed that the beast’s weaker spirit (ormind) is pushed aside by the Kindred’s own consciousness. The vampire’s body falls into a motionless stateakin to torpor while his mind takes control of the animal’s actions, remaining this way until the Kindred’sconsciousness returns.Some haughty Tzimisce eschew this power, considering it debasing to enter the body of a lesser creature.When they do stoop to using it, they possess only predators. Conversely, Gangrel revel in connecting to thenatural world in this way. They delight in sampling different animals’ natures.System: The player rolls Manipulation + AnimalKen (difficulty 8) as the character looks into the animal’s eyes (see sidebar on p. 152). The number of successes allows the character to employ some mental Disciplines while possessing the animal, as noted below.
		@1 success 	Cannot use Disciplines
		@2 successes	Can use Auspex and other sensorypowers
		@3 successes	Can also use Presence and otherpowers of emotional manipulation
		@4 successes	Can also use Dementation,Dominate, and other powers ofmental manipulation
		@5 successes	Can also use Chimerstry,Necromancy, Thaumaturgy, andother mystical powers
	**This power entwines the character’s consciousnessclosely with the animal’s spirit, so much so that thecharacter may continue to think and feel like that animal even after breaking the connection. This effectcontinues until the character spends a total of sevennights or three Willpower points to resist and finallyovercome the animal nature. This should be roleplayed, though the character will be affected to a lesserdegree if the player chooses to spend Willpower.At the end of any particularly exciting incident during possession, the player rolls Wits + Empathy (difficulty 8) for the character to retain his own mind. Failure indicates that the character’s mind returns to hisown body, but still thinks in purely animalistic terms.A botch returns the character to his body, and alsosends him into frenzy.The character may travel as far from his own physicalbody as he chooses while possessing the animal. Thecharacter retains no conscious connection with hisvampire body during this time, though. The vampiremay also venture out during the day, albeit in the animal’s body. However, the character’s own body mustbe awake to do so, requiring a successful roll to remainawake (see p. 262). If the character leaves the animal’sbody (by choice, if his body falls asleep, or after sustaining significant injury), the vampire’s consciousnessreturns to his physical form instantaneously.Although the vampire has no conscious link to hisbody while possessing the animal, he does form a sympathetic bond. Anything the animal feels, the vampirealso experiences, from pleasure to pain. In fact, anydamage the animal’s body sustains is also applied to thecharacter’s body, though the Kindred body may soakas normal. If the animal dies before the vampire’s soulcan flee from the body, the character’s body falls into torpor. Presumably this is in sympathetic response tothe massive trauma of death, but some Kindred believethat the vampire’s soul is cast adrift during this timeand must find its way back to the body.

	5:Drawing Out the Beast
	*At this level of Animalism, the Kindred has a keenunderstanding of the Beast Within, and is able to release his feral urges upon another mortal or vampire.The recipient of the vampire’s Beast is instantly overcome by frenzy. This is an unnatural frenzy, however,as the victim is channeling the Kindred’s own fury. Assuch, the vampire’s own behavior, expressions, andeven speech patterns are evident in the subject’s savage actions.Gangrel and Tzimisce are especially fond of unleashing their Beasts onto others. Gangrel do so to stir theirghouls into inspired heights of savagery during combat.Tzimisce care less about who receives their Beast thanretaining their own composure.System: The player must announce his preferred target (since it must be someone within sight, DrawingOut the Beast cannot be used if the vampire is alone),then roll Manipulation + Self-Control/Instinct (difficulty 8). Refer to the table below for the results:
		@1 success	The character transfers the Beast, butunleashes it upon a randomindividual.
		@2 successes	The character is stunned by the effortand may not act next turn, buttransfers the Beast successfully.Alternatively, the character may actnormally during the turn, but mustspend a Willpower point or suffer asingle level of lethal damage.
		@3+ successes 	The character transfers the Beast successfully.
	**If the attempt fails, the character himself immediately enters frenzy. As the character relaxes in expectation of relieving his savage urges, the Beast takes thatopportunity to dig deeper. In this case, the frenzy laststwice as long as normal and is twice as difficult to shrugoff; its severity also increases exponentially. Botching this roll is even more catastrophic; the heightenedfrenzy grows so extreme that not even expending Will- power curbs its duration or effects. The character is ahapless victim to the terrible fury of his Beast, and maywell hurl herself into a savage, flesh-rending rampagethat leaves the Masquerade (and unfortunate nearbyonlookers) in tatters.If the character leaves the target’s presence beforethe frenzy expends itself, the vampire loses his Beast,perhaps permanently. While no longer vulnerable tofrenzy, the character cannot use or regain Willpowerand becomes increasingly lethargic. To recover theBeast, he must find the person who now possesses it(who likely isn’t enjoying herself very much) and coaxthe Beast into its proper vessel. The most effective wayto do so is to behave in ways that make the Beast wantto return — however, this isn’t a guarantee that it willwish to do so. Alternatively, the character can simplykill the host (thus causing the Beast to return to thevampire immediately).
	6: Animal Succulence
	*Most vampires find the blood of animals flat, tasteless, and lacking in nutritional value. Some Gangreland Nosferatu, however, have refined their understanding of the spirits of such “lesser prey” to the pointthat they are able to draw much more sustenance frombeasts than normal Kindred can. This power does notallow an elder to subsist solely on the blood of animals,but it does allow him to go for extended periods of timewithout taking vitae from humans or other Kindred.System: No roll is needed; once learned, this poweris always in effect. Animal Succulence allows a character to count each blood point drawn from an animal astwo in her blood pool. This does not increase the sizeof the vampire’s blood pool, just the nutritional valueof animal blood.Animal Succulence does not allow a character tocompletely ignore his craving for the blood of “higher”prey; in fact, it heightens his desire for “real food.” Every three times (rounded down) the character drinksfrom an animal, a cumulative +1 difficulty is appliedto the next Self-Control/Instinct roll the player makeswhen the character is confronted with the possibilityof dining on human or Kindred blood.Animal Succulence does not increase the bloodpoint value of the blood of other supernatural creatures(Gangrel, werecreatures, and so on) who have takenanimal forms, nor does it change the vampire’s feedingpreferences (such as the Ventrue have).
	6: Shared Soul
	*This power allows a character to probe the mind ofany one animal she touches. Shared Soul can be verydisconcerting to both parties involved, as each participant is completely immersed in the thoughts andemotions of the other. With enough effort or time,each participant can gain a complete understanding ofthe other’s mind. Shared Soul is most often used toextract an animal’s memories of a specific event, butsome Gangrel use this power as a tool in the searchfor enlightenment, feeling they come to a better understanding of their own Beasts through rapport withtrue beasts. Too close of a bond, however, can leavethe two souls entangled after the sharing ends, causingthe vampire to adopt mannerisms, behavior patterns,or even ethics (or lack thereof) similar to those of theanimal.System: The character touches the intended subjectcreature, and the player rolls Perception + Animal Ken(difficulty 6). The player spends a Willpower point forevery turn past the first that contact is maintained. Locating a specific memory takes six turns, minus one turnfor every success on the roll. A complete bond takes 10turns, minus one turn for every success on the roll. Abotch on this roll may, at the Storyteller’s discretion,send the vampire into a frenzy or give the character aderangement related to the behavior patterns of theanimal (extreme cowardice if the vampire contactedthe soul of mouse, bloodlust if the subject was a rabiddog, and so forth).••••• • Species SpeechThe basic power Feral Whispers (Animalism 1) allows character to communicate with only one animalat a time. With Species Speech, a character can enterinto psychic communion with all creatures of a certainspecies that are present. Species Speech is most oftenused after an application of The Beckoning (Animalism 2), which can draw a crowd of likely subjects.System: The player rolls Manipulation + AnimalKen (difficulty 7) to establish contact with the targeted group of animals. Once the character establishes contact, the player makes a second roll to issuecommands. There is no practical upper limit on thenumber of animals that can be commanded with thispower, although all of the intended subjects must be inthe vampire’s immediate vicinity. Only one species ofanimal can be commanded at a time; thus, if a character is standing in the middle of the reptile house at thezoo, she could command all of the Komodo dragons, all of the boa constrictors, or all of the skinks, but shecould not simultaneously give orders to every reptileor snake present. Species Speech functions much likeFeral Whispers in all other respects.Note: Players (and Storytellers) shouldn’t get toowrapped up in species differences like northern diamondback rattlesnakes and south-eastern diamondbackrattlesnakes. At Storyteller discretion, the expenditureof an additional Willpower point allows the character’scommands to extend to members of a similar species tothe one initially commanded.
	7: Conquer the Beast
	*Masters of Animalism have a much greater understanding of both beasts in general and the Beast inparticular. Those who have developed this power canmaster their own Beasts to a degree impossible for lesserKindred to attain. Conquer the Beast allows the vampire both to control her frenzies and to enter them atwill. Some elders say that the development of this power is one of the first steps on the road to Golconda.System: The character can enter frenzy at will. Theplayer rolls Willpower (difficulty 7). Success sends thecharacter into a controlled frenzy. He can choose histargets at will, but gains limited Dominate and woundpenalty resistance and Rötschreck immunity as per thenormal frenzy rules (p. 298). A botch on the roll sendsthe vampire into an uncontrolled frenzy which Conquer the Beast may not be used to end.The player may also roll Willpower (difficulty 9) toenable the character to control an involuntary frenzy.In this case, a Willpower point must be spent for every turn that the vampire remains in frenzy. The playermay make Self-Control/Instinct rolls as normal to end afrenzy, but if the vampire runs out of Willpower pointsbefore the frenzy ends, he drops into an uncontrolledfrenzy again. A botch on the Willpower roll raises thedifficulty of the vampire’s Self-Control/Instinct rolls bytwo and renders Conquer the Beast unusable for theremainder of the night.
	8: Taunt the Caged Beast
	*Some Kindred are so attuned to the Beast that theycan unleash it in another individual at will. Vampireswho have developed this power are able to send adversaries into frenzy with a finger’s touch and the resultant momentary contact with the victim’s Beast.The physical contact allows the vampire’s own Beastto reach out and awaken that of the victim, enraging itby threatening its territory.
	**System: The character touches the target. Theplayer spends a Willpower point and rolls Manipulation + Empathy (difficulty 7). The victim makes aSelf-Control/Instinct roll (difficulty 5 + the numberof successes); failure results in an immediate frenzy. Abotch causes the character to unleash his own Beastand frenzy instead. This power maybe used on thoseindividuals who are normally incapable of frenzy, sending ordinary humans into murderous rages worthy ofthe most bloodthirsty Brujah berserker.
	9:Unchain the Beast
	*The self-destructive nature of Cainites can be turnedagainst them by an elder who possesses this formidablepower. With a glance, the vampire can awaken theBeasts of her enemies, causing physical injury and excruciating agony as the victim’s own violent impulsesmanifest in physical form to tear him apart from within.A target of this power erupts into a fountain of bloodand gore as claw and bite wounds from an invisiblesource spontaneously tear his flesh asunder.System: The character makes eye contact (seep. 152) with the intended victim. The player spendsthree blood points and rolls Manipulation + Intimidation (difficulty of the victim’s Self-Control/Instinct +4). Each success inflicts one health level of aggravateddamage, which can be soaked normally. A botch inflicts one health level of lethal damage to the invokingcharacter for each “1” rolled. This damage can also besoaked normally.

--Auspex
	*Auspex gives the vampire uncanny sensory abilities.She starts with the capacity to heighten her naturalsenses significantly, but as she grows in power, she canperceive psychic auras and read the thoughts of anotherbeing. Auspex can also pierce through mental illusionssuch as those created by Obfuscate — see the sidebar“Seeing the Unseen” on p. 142 for more.However, a vampire with Auspex needs to be careful.Her increased sensory sensitivity can cause her to bedrawn in by beautiful things or stunned by loud noises or pungent smells. Sudden or dynamic events candisorient an Auspex-using character unless her playermakes a Willpower roll to block them out (difficulty ofat least 4, although the more potent the source of distraction, the higher the difficulty). Failure overwhelms the character’s senses, making her oblivious to her surroundings for a turn or two. While the Malkavians andToreador are more prone to these kinds of distractions,the Tremere and Tzimisce aren’t immune.Dots in Perception are very useful for using Auspexpowers, as more successes help the character gain moresensory information.Condition		Aura Colors	Afraid			OrangeAggressive		PurpleAngry			RedBitter			BrownCalm			Light BlueCompassionate		PinkConservative		Lavender	Depressed		Gray		Desirous or Lustful	Deep RedDistrustful		Light GreenEnvious		Dark GreenExcited		VioletGenerous		RoseHappy			VermilionHateful		Black		Idealistic		YellowInnocent		WhiteLovestruck		BlueObsessed		GreenSad			Silver		Spiritual		Gold		Suspicious		Dark Blue	Anxious		Auras appear scrambled like static or white noiseConfused		Mottled, shifting colorsDiablerist		Black veins in auraDaydreaming		Sharp flickering colorsFrenzied		Rapidly rippling colorsPsychotic		Hypnotic, swirling colorsVampire		Aura colors are paleGhoul			Pale blotches in the auraMagic Use		Myriad sparkles in auraWerebeast		Bright, vibrant auraGhost			Weak, intermittent auraFaerie			Rainbow highlights in auraAuspex Rating		No. of Targets			No. of TargetsAuspex 6		3:subjects			Approximate Range500 miles/800 kilometersAuspex 7		Perception rating		1000 miles/1500 kilometersAuspex 8		Perception + Empathy		500 miles/800 kilometers per point of IntelligenceAuspex 9		2x (Perception + Empathy)	1000 miles/1500 kilometers per point of Intelligence
	1:Heightened Senses This power increases the acuity of all of the vampire’s senses, effectively doubling the clarity and rangeof sight, hearing, and smell. While her senses of tasteand touch extend no farther than normal, they likewise become far more distinct; the vampire could tastethe hint of liquor in a victim’s blood or feel the give ofthe board concealing a hollow space in the floor. TheKindred may magnify her senses at will, sustaining thisheightened focus for as long as she desires. At the Storyteller’s option, this may make hunting easier.Occasionally, this talent provides extrasensory oreven precognitive insights. These brief, unfocusedglimpses may be odd premonitions, flashes of empathy,or eerie feelings of foreboding. The vampire has nocontrol over these perceptions, but with practice canlearn to interpret them with a fair degree of accuracy.Expanded senses come at a price, however. Brightlights, loud noises and strong smells present a hazardwhile the vampire uses this power. In addition to thepossibility for distraction, an especially sudden or potent stimulus (like the glare of a spotlight or a clap ofthunder) can blind or deafen the Kindred for an houror more.System: It takes a reflexive action to activate thisability, but no roll or other cost is required. In certaincircumstances, dice rolls associated with using thecharacter’s sense (such as Perception + Alertness) decrease in difficulty by a number equal to the character’sAuspex rating when the power is engaged.The Storyteller may also use this power to see if thecharacter perceives a threat. In this case, the Storyteller privately rolls the character’s unmodified Auspexrating, applying whatever difficulty he feels best suitsthe circumstances. For example, sensing that a pistol ispointed at the back of the character’s head may requirea roll of difficulty 5, while the sudden realization thata rival for Primogen is planning her assassination mayrequire a 9. Note that even this “precognition” comesonly as a result of interpreting details the Kindred is able to notice. It’s not an all-purpose insight or miraculous revelation.At the character’s discretion, she may selectivelyheighten one specific sense, rather than leaving themall on. In these cases, the difficulty to perceive stimuli using that sense drops by one, but the difficulty toavoid distraction or temporary bedazzlement increasesby one.This power does not let characters see in pitch darkness, as does Eyes of the Beast (p. 199), but it does reduce difficulty penalties to act in such darkness from+2 to +1, and the character may make ranged attacksin pitch darkness if she can hear, smell, or otherwisedetect her foe.
	2:Aura Perception
	*Using this power, the vampire can perceive the psychic “auras” that radiate from mortals and supernaturalbeings alike. These halos comprise a shifting series ofcolors that take practice to discern with clarity. Eventhe simplest individual has many shifting hues withinhis aura; strong emotions predominate, while momentary impressions or deep secrets flash through in streaksand swirls.
	**The colors change in sympathy with the subject’semotional state, blending into new tones in a constantly dancing pattern. The stronger the emotionsinvolved, the more intense the hues become. A skilledvampire can learn much from her subject by readingthe nuances of color and brilliance in the aura’s flow.Aside from perceiving emotional states, vampires useAura Perception to detect supernatural beings. Thecolors in Kindred auras, while intense, are quite pale;mage halos often flare and crackle with arcane power;the race of shapeshifters has strikingly bright, almostfrantic, auras; ghosts have weak auras that flicker fitfully like a dying flame; and faerie creatures’ radiance isshot through with capricious rainbow hues.System: After the character stares at the subject forat least a few seconds, the player rolls Perception + Empathy (difficulty 8); each success indicates how muchof the subject’s aura the character sees and understands(see the table below). A failure indicates that the playof colors and patterns yields no prevailing impression.A botch indicates a false or erroneous interpretation.The Storyteller may wish to make this roll, thus keeping the player in the dark as to the veracity of the character’s interpretation.
		@1 success	Can distinguish only the shade (paleor bright).
		@2 successes	Can distinguish the main color.
		@3 successes	Can recognize the color patterns.
		@4 successes	Can detect subtle shifts.
		@5 successes	Can identify mixtures of color andpattern.
	**The Aura Colors chart offers some example ideasof common colors and the emotions they reflect thatStorytellers can use. Note that it is nearly impossibleto determine with certainty if a particular character islying or not with this power – vampires are inherentlydeceitful by nature, but even mortals might react withanxiety to questions while still being truthful. It is,however, helpful in determine the target’s emotionalstate, which might lead the vampire to decide that aparticular target is suspicious.A character may choose to perform a very cursoryaura scan of a large area like a nightclub’s dance flooror the audience in a gallery. In this case, the playerdecides which characteristic of auras she’s looking for,and that’s the only information she’s able to glean ifthe roll is successful. (At the Storyteller’s discretion,on this general scan roll, more successes on the rollmay more quickly yield what the character seeks.) Forexample, the player may specify, “Who’s the most nervous person in attendance?” or “Are there any vampirically pale auras among the CEO’s entourage?” Thereafter, the player may narrow down her scrutiny of asingle individual, with an additional roll as normal.The character may focus in on a particular subject’saura only once per scene with any degree of clarity.Any subsequent attempts that result in failure shouldbe considered botches. It is very easy for the characterto imagine seeing what she wants to see when judging someone’s intentions. After 24 hours, the charactermay try again at no penalty.It is possible, though difficult, to sense the aura of abeing who is otherwise invisible to normal sight. Referto “Seeing the Unseen,” p. 142, for more information.
	3:The Spirit’s Touch
	*When someone handles an object for any lengthof time, he leaves a psychic impression on the item.A vampire with this level of Auspex can “read” thesesensations, learning who handled the object, when helast held it, and what was done with it recently. (For these purposes, a corpse counts as an “object” and canbe read accordingly.) These visions are seldom clearand detailed, registering more like a kind of “psychicsnapshot.” Still, the Kindred can learn much evenfrom such a glimpse. Although most visions concernthe last person to handle the item, a long-time ownerleaves a stronger impression than someone who heldthe object briefly.Gleaning information from the spiritual residue requires the vampire to hold the object and enter a shallow trance. She is only marginally aware of her surroundings while using The Spirit’s Touch, but a loudnoise or jarring physical sensation breaks the tranceinstantly.System: The player rolls Perception + Empathy. Thedifficulty is determined by the age of the impressionsand the mental and spiritual strength of the person orevent that left them. Sensing information from a pistol used for a murder hours ago may require a 4, whilelearning who owned a bloodstained puppet fashioned acentury ago might be a 9.The greater the individual’s emotional connectionto the object, the stronger the impression he leaveson it — and the more information the Kindred canglean from it. Events involving strong emotions (a giftgiving, a torture, a long family history) likewise leavestronger impressions than short or casual contact do.Assume that each success offers one piece of information, as per the chart below.
		@-1 success			The character is overwhelmed bypsychic impressions for the next 30minutes and unable to act.
		@0 success		No information of value.
		@1 success		A second piece of basic information.
		@2 successes		More useful information about thelast owner, such as age and state ofmind the last time he used the item.
		@3 successes		Very basic information: the lastowner’s gender or hair color,for instance.
		@4 successes		The person’s name.
		@5+ successes		A wealth of information: nearlyanything you want to know about theperson’s relationship with that objectis available.
	**At the Storyteller’s discretion, some impressionson objects may be so strong — a knife plunged intoCaesar’s breast, the tip of the Spear of Destiny, a fangpulled from the maw of Dracula — that any use of thispower may be deemed a success.
	4:Telepathy
	*The vampire projects a portion of her consciousnessinto a nearby mortal’s mind, creating a mental linkthrough which she can communicate wordlessly oreven read the target’s deepest thoughts. The Kindred“hears” in her own mind the thoughts plucked from asubject as if they were spoken to her.This is one of the most potent vampiric abilities,since, given time, a Kindred can learn virtually anything from a subject without him ever knowing. TheTremere and Tzimisce in particular find this power especially useful in gleaning secrets from others, or fordirecting their mortal followers with silent precision.System: The player rolls Intelligence + Subterfuge(difficulty of the subject’s current Willpower points).Projecting thoughts into the target’s mind requires onesuccess. The subject recognizes that the thoughts comefrom somewhere other than his own consciousness,though he cannot discern their actual origin without asuccessful Perception + Awareness roll (difficulty equalto the vampire’s Manipulation + Subterfuge).To read minds, one success must be rolled for eachitem of information plucked or each layer of thoughtpierced. Deep secrets or buried memories are harder toobtain than surface emotions or unspoken comments,requiring five or more successes to access.Reading thoughts with Telepathy does not commonly work upon the undead mind. A character mayexpend a Willpower point to make the effort, making the roll normally afterward. Likewise, it is equallydifficult to read the thoughts of other supernaturalcreatures. However, the character may project herthoughts without expending a Willpower point. Thesethoughts, however, are still obviously intrusions intothe target’s mind, but the character may attempt to disguise her mental “voice” with a roll of Manipulation +Subterfuge (difficulty equals the target’s Perception +Awareness) so the target doesn’t recognize her as the“speaker.”Storytellers are encouraged to describe thoughts asflowing streams of impressions and images, rather thanas a sequence of prose (powers such as Telepathic Communication are of more use for that). Instead of makingflat statements like “He’s planning on killing his former lover’s new boyfriend,” say “You see a fleeting seriesof visions: A couple kissing passionately in a doorway,then the man walking alone at night; you suddenly seeyour hands, knuckles white, wrapped around a steering wheel, with a figure crossing the street ahead; yourheart, mortal now and hammering with panic as youhear the engine rev wildly; and above all, a blazing anger coupled with emotional agony and a panicked fearof loss.” Such descriptions not only add to the story, butthey also force the player to interpret for herself whather character gleans. After all, understanding minds —especially highly emotional or deranged minds — is adifficult and often puzzling task. damage), or hurtling toward the desired destination soforcefully that the silver cord snaps.
	5:Psychic
	*Projection An astral form may travel at great speeds (the Storyteller can use roughly 1000 miles per hour or 1500kilometers per hour as a general guide) and carries noclothing or material objects of any kind. Some artifactsare said to exist in the spirit world, and the charactercan try to use one of these tools if she finds one. Thecharacter cannot bring such relics to the physical worldwhen she returns to her body, however.
	**The Kindred with this awesome ability projects hersenses out of her physical shell, stepping from her bodyas an entity of pure thought. The vampire’s astral formis immune to physical damage or fatigue, and can “fly”with blinding speed anywhere across the earth — oreven underground — so long as she remains below themoon’s orbit.The Kindred’s material form lies in a torpid statewhile her astral self is active, and the vampire isn’taware of anything that befalls her body until she returnsto it. An ephemeral silver cord connects the Kindred’spsyche to her body. If this cord is severed, her consciousness becomes stranded in the astral plane (the realm ofghosts, spirits, and shades). Attempting to return to thevampire’s physical shell is a long and terrifying ordeal,especially since there is no guarantee that she will accomplish the journey successfully. This significant danger keeps many Kindred from leaving their bodies forlong, but those who dare can learn much.System: Journeying in astral form requires the playerto expend a point of Willpower and make a Perception+ Awareness roll. Difficulty varies depending on the distance and complexity of the intended trip; 5 is withinsight, 7 is nearby or to a familiar location, and 9 reflects atrip far from familiar territory (a first journey from NorthAmerica to the Far East; trying to shortcut through theearth). The greater the number of successes rolled, themore focused the character’s astral presence is, and theeasier it is for her to reach her desired destination.Failure means the character is unable to separateher consciousness from her body, while a botch canhave nasty consequences — flinging her astral form toa random destination on Earth or in the spirit realm,arriving in a place where the sun is active (necessitating a frenzy roll, although the sunlight doesn’t do any
	**The player may spend a point of Willpower to activate this power, and an additional point of Willpower togain the success necessary to perform the jaunt. This isan exception to the normal rule where a player may notspend more than a single point of Willpower per turn.Each scene in Psychic Projection requires anotherpoint of Willpower and a new roll. Failure indicatesthat the vampire has lost her way and must retrace thepath of her silver cord. A botch at this stage means thecord snaps, stranding the character’s psychic form inthe mysterious astral plane.
	**Interaction with the physical world is impossiblewhile using Psychic Projection. At best, the charactermay spend a Willpower point to manifest as a ghostlike shape. This apparition lasts one turn before fadingaway; while she can’t affect anything physically during this time, the character can speak. Despite lackingphysical substance, an astral character can use Auspexnormally. At the Storyteller’s discretion, such a character may employ some or all Animalism, Dementation, Dominate, Necromancy, Obtenebration, Presence, Thaumaturgy, and similar non-corporeal powersshe has, though this typically requires a minimum ofthree successes on the initial Psychic Projection roll.If two astral shapes encounter one another, theyinteract as if they were solid. They may talk, touch,and even fight as if both were in the material world.Since they have no physical bodies, astral charactersseeking to interact “physically” substitute Mental andSocial Traits for Physical ones (Wits replaces Dexterity, Manipulation supplants Strength, and Intelligencereplaces Stamina). Due to the lack of a material form,the only real way to damage another psychic entity isto cut its silver cord. When fighting this way, considerWillpower points to be health levels; when a combatant loses all of her Willpower, the cord is severed.Although an astrally projected character remains inthe reflection of the mortal world, she may venture further into the spirit realms, especially if she becomes lost. Other beings with particular sensitivity to psychicactivity, such as ghosts, werewolves, and even somemagi, travel the astral plane as well, and can interactwith a vampire’s psychic presence normally (althoughthe astrally projected character is not considered a“ghost” for powers such as Necromancy). The observing character notices the astrally projecting vampirewith a Perception + Awareness roll (difficulty 8), requiring more successes than the Psychic Projectionactivation roll. Even those who do notice you won’tbe able to identify you; you are merely an immaterialshade hovering in the general area. Storytellers are encouraged to make trips into the spirit world as bizarre,mysterious, and dreamlike as possible. The world beyond is a vivid and fantastic place, where the true nature of things is stronger and often strikingly differentfrom their earthly appearances. begin their friends’ sentences. Prediction is a constantlow-level telepathic scan of the minds of everyone thecharacter is in proximity to. While this power does notgive the vampire the details of his neighbors’ consciousthoughts, it does provide a wealth of cues as to the subjects’ moods, suppressed reflexes, and attitudes towardthe topic of conversation.
	6: Clairvoyance 
	*By using Clairvoyance, a vampire can perceive distant events without using Psychic Projection. By concentrating on a familiar person, place, or object, acharacter can observe the subject’s immediate vicinitywhile staying aware of her own surroundings.System: The player rolls Perception + Empathy (difficulty 6) and describes the target she’s trying to lookin on. If the roll is successful, the character can thenperceive the events and environment surrounding thedesired target for one turn per success. Other Auspexpowers may be used on the scene being viewed; these arerolled normally. Clairvoyance does split the vampire’sperceptions between what she is viewing at a distanceand what is taking place around her. As a result, whileusing this power, a character is at +3 difficulty on all rollsrelating to actions that affect her physical surroundings.
	6: Prediction
	*Some people are capable of finishing their friends’sentences. Elder vampires with Prediction sometimes
	**System: Whenever the character is in conversationand either participant in the discussion makes a Socialroll, the player may pre-empt the roll to spend a bloodpoint and make a Perception + Empathy roll (difficulty of the target’s Manipulation + Subterfuge). Eachsuccess is an additional die that can be applied to theplayer’s Social roll or subtracted from the dice pool ofthe Social roll being made against the character.
	6: Telepathic Communication 
	*Telepathy (p. 137) allows a character to pick up onlythe surface thoughts of other individuals, and to speakto one at a time. With Telepathic Communication,a character can form a more powerful link betweenhis mind and that of other subjects, allowing them toconverse in words, concepts, and sensory images at thespeed of thought (and without the need for Willpowerexpenditure, unlike with Telepathy). Vampires withthis level of Auspex can act as “switchboard operators,”creating a telepathic web that allows all participants toshare thoughts with some or all other members of thenetwork as they choose.
	**System: The player rolls Charisma + Empathy (difficulty equals the target’s current Willpower points) toestablish contact, although a willing subject may allowthe vampire access and thus obviate the need for a roll.The maximum range at which a subject may be contacted and the maximum number of individuals whomay be linked simultaneously with this power dependson the Auspex rating of the vampire who initiates contact (see sidebar).
	7: Karmic Sight
	*The power of Aura Perception (Auspex 2) allows avampire to take a brief glimpse at the soul of a subject. This power takes Aura Perception several stepsforward, allowing a vampire who has mastered Auspex2 to probe the inner workings of a subject’s mind andsoul.System: The player rolls Perception + Empathy (difficulty equals the subject’s current Willpower). The degree of success determines the information gained.
		@-1 success			The character gains a Derangementor Psychological/Mental/Supernatural Flaw similar toone of the target’s for onenight, at Storyteller discretion.
		@1 success		As per five successes on anAura Perception roll.
		@2 successes		Subject’s Nature, Demeanor,and Humanity or Path can bedetermined.
		@3 successes		Any outside influences on thesubject’s mind or soul, such asDominate or a demonic pact,can be detected.
		@4 successes		Subject’s Willpower, Humanity orPath, and Virtue ratings canbe determined.
		@5 successes		The state of the subject’skarma may be determined.This is a highly abstract pieceof information best left toStoryteller discretion, butshould reveal the generalbalance between “good” and“bad” actions the subject hasperformed, both recently andover the course of hisexistence. If the plot meritsit, the character may receivevisions of one or moreincidents in the subject’s pastthat radically altered his destiny.With this degree of success, somefate-related Merits and Flaws (e.g.Dark Fate) can be identified as well.
	7:Mirror Reflex
	*This power was developed by a Toreador elder whomade a fearsome reputation through her fencing prowess, acting as a hired champion in dozens of Ventrueduels. Mirror Reflex is similar to Prediction in that it isin essence a low-level telepathic scan of an opponent,but this power taps into physical (rather than social)reflexes, allowing the character to anticipate an enemy’s moves in personal combat.System: The player spends a blood point and rollsPerception + the combat skill the opponent is using(difficulty of the subject’s Manipulation + combat skillin use). Each success is an additional die that can he applied to the character’s dice pools during the next turnof combat for any actions taken against the scanned opponent. The use of Mirror Reflex does take one combataction, and the power has a maximum range in yards ormeters equal to the character’s Willpower rating.
	8:Psychic Assault
	*Psychic Assault is nothing less than a direct mindto-mind attack which uses the sheer force of an elder’swill to overpower his target. Victims of Psychic Assaultshow little outward sign of the attack, save for nosebleeds and expressions of intense agony; all injuries bymeans of this psychic pressure inflicted are internal. Amedical examination of a mortal victim of a PsychicAssault invariably shows the cause of death to be aheart attack or aneurysm, while vampires killed withthis power decay to dust instantly, regardless of age.System: The character must touch or make eye contact with his target. The player spends three bloodpoints (and a Willpower point, if assaulting a vampireor other supernatural being) and rolls Manipulation +Intimidation in a contested roll against the victim’sWillpower. The result depends on the number of netsuccesses the attacker rolls.
		@-1 success			The target becomes immune to theattacker’s Psychic Assault for onenight per each “1” rolled.
		@0 success		The target is unharmed and maydetermine that a psychic assault istaking place by succeeding on aPerception + Awareness roll(difficulty 6).
		@1 success		The target is shaken but unharmed.He loses a temporary Willpowerpoint.
		@2 successes		The target is badly frightened. Heloses three temporary Willpowerpoints and, if a vampire, must rollCourage (difficulty of the attacker‘sAuspex rating) to avoid Rötschreck.
		@3 successes		The target loses six temporaryWillpower points and, if a vampire,must roll Courage as above. If thiscauses him to lose his last temporaryWillpower point, he loses apermanent Willpower point andreceives three health levels of bashingdamage (soaked normally).
		@4 successes		The target loses all temporaryWillpower points and half of hispermanent Willpower points (rounddown) and suffers three health levelsof lethal damage (soaked normally).
		@5 successes		The target must roll his permanentWillpower (difficulty 7). If hesucceeds, apply the effect of foursuccesses, and is also renderedunconscious for the rest of the night.If he fails, the Psychic Assault killshim instantly.
	9:False Slumber
	*Possibly the source of many Malkavians’ conviction that their sire is alive and well on the astral plane, thispower allows a Methuselah‘s spirit to leave his body whilein torpor. While seemingly asleep, the vampire is able toproject astrally, think, and perceive events normally.System: No roll is needed. This power is consideredto be active whenever the vampire’s body is in torpor,and astral travels are handled as per the rules for Psychic Projection. The vampire is not able to awakenphysically at will, however — waking from torpor ishandled per the normal rules for such an action (seep. 283).A vampire with this power whose silver cord is severed inastral combat loses all Willpower points, as per the rules forastral combat under Psychic Projection, but is not killed.Instead, he loses the use of this Auspex power and half ofhis permanent Willpower points. Both the Auspex 9 powerand the Willpower must be bought back with experiencepoints. The vampire’s soul slowly returns to his body overthe course of a year and a day, during which time he maynot be awakened from torpor by any means.

--Celerity
	*Not all vampires are slow, meticulous creatures.When needed, some vampires can move fast — reallyfast. Celerity allows Assamites, Brujah, and Toreadorsto move with astonishing swiftness, becoming practically a blur. The Assamites use their speed in conjunction with stealth to strike quickly and viciously fromthe shadows before they are noticed. Brujah, on theother hand, simply like the edge that the power givesthem against overwhelming odds. The Toreador aremore inclined to use Celerity to provide an air of unnatural grace to live performances or for an extra pushto complete a masterpiece on time, but they can beas quick to draw blood as any assassin or punk whenangered.System: Each point of Celerity adds one die to everyDexterity-related dice roll. In addition, the player canspend one blood point to take an extra action up to thenumber of dots he has in Celerity at the beginning ofthe relevant turn; this expenditure can go beyond hernormal Generation maximum. Any dots used for extraactions, however, are no longer available for Dexterity-related rolls during that turn. These additional actions must be physical (e.g., the vampire cannot use amental Discipline like Dominate multiple times in oneturn), and extra actions occur at the end of the turn(the vampire’s regular action still takes place per herinitiative roll).Normally, a character without Celerity must dividetheir dice if she wants to take multiple actions in asingle turn, as per p. 248. A character using Celerityperforms his extra actions (including full movement)without penalty, gaining a full dice pool for each separate action. Extra actions gained through Celerity maynot in turn be split into multiple actions, however.Celerity 6+Usually, elders progress in Celerity according to theexisting progression – more dots mean more dice andpotential actions a turn that are available, and levels6 through 9 have those powers available at each level,as normal. Similar to other Disciplines at level 6 orhigher, though, alternative powers exist. If the elderwants to purchase an alternative power instead of thetypical progression (as per the sidebar on p. 127), shecan, but she forfeits the capacity an extra Dexterity dieand potential for an extra action to gain the special power instead. She can go back later and purchase the“normal” dot of Celerity later, as desired.Note that it isn’t possible to “skip” levels of progression for the normal Discipline – an elder with Celerity7 that buys Projective at level 6 needs to go back andbuy the normal level 6 power before getting the accessto his level 7 power that grants the capacity for up toseven Dexterity dice or actions in a turn.
	6: Projectile
	*Despite the fact that a vampire with Celerity movesat incredible speeds, any bullets he fires or knives hethrows while in this state don’t move any faster thanthey normally would. Scientifically minded Kindredhave been baffled by the phenomenon for centuries,but more pragmatic ones have found a way to workaround it. Projectile enables a vampire to take his preternatural speed and transfer it into something he hasthrown, fired, or launched.System: Projectile requires the expenditure of a bloodpoint. In addition, the player must decide how manylevels of his character’s Celerity he is putting into thespeed of the launched object. Thus, a character withCelerity 6 in addition to Projectile could decide to put three dots’ worth of speed into a knife he is throwing,and use the other three dots as dice or potential extraactions as per normal. Each dot of Celerity infused intoa thrown object becomes an automatic success to theattack’s damage roll, assuming the weapon or projectileactually hits.
	7: Flower of Death
	*In combat, speed kills. A proper application of Celerity in combat can turn even the meekest Cainiteinto a walking abattoir. How much more deadly, then,is a vampire with the ability to utilize his preternaturalspeed to the utmost in combat? Flower of Death allowsa vampire to take his Celerity and apply it in full toeach hand-to-hand or melee attack he makes.System: Flower of Death costs four blood points, butthe spectacular effect is well worth it. Once the poweris in effect, the vampire’s bonus dice for Dexterity rollsget added to every dice pool for attack the charactermakes (even if the roll doesn’t use Dexterity) until theend of the scene. Further, even if the Kindred uses someof his Celerity dots for extra actions during the scene,these extra dice are still available. The effect is limitedto hand-to-hand or melee weapon attacks — firearms, bows, and other ranged weapons are excluded — butdoes grant the attacker additional dice for damage rolls.Flower of Death is not cumulative — it is impossibleto “layer” uses of the power over one another to createastronomical dice pools. dragons breathing fire or gravity working in reverse).Sometimes, frequent targets of Chimerstry end up attempting to disbelieve everything around them, leading to derangements (and, quite often, to the amusement of the Ravnos).
	8: Zephyr
	*Zephyr produces an effect vaguely similar to one ofthe legendary comic book-style uses of enhanced speed,allowing its practitioner to run so fast he can run acrosswater. Particularly successful applications of Zephyr allow a vampire to go so far as to run up walls and, in atleast one recorded instance, across a ceiling.System: Zephyr requires the expenditure of one pointof blood and one point of Willpower. Unfortunately,Zephyr requires such extremes of concentration that itcannot be combined with any form of attack, or indeed,with most any sort of action at all. If a character usingZephyr feels the need to do something else while moving at such tremendous speeds, a Willpower roll (difficulty 8) is required. Needless to say, botches at Zephyrspeed can be spectacular in all the wrong ways.Most times, a vampire moving at such a rate of speedis barely visible, appearing more as a vampire-shapedblur than anything else. Observers must succeed on aPerception + Alertness roll (difficulty 7) to get a decent look at a Kindred zooming past in this fashion.
	**System: The player spends a point of Willpowerfor the vampire to create this illusion. The volume ofsmells, ambient lighting, smoke clouds, and the likeare limited to roughly 20 cubic feet (half a cubic meter) per dot the vampire has in Chimerstry. The illusion lasts until the vampire leaves its vicinity (such asstepping out of the room) or until another person seesthrough it somehow. The Cainite may also end the illusion at any time with no effort.

--Chimerstry
	*The Ravnos are known as masters of illusion, although the reason why is lost to history. Rumorsabound of Ravnos ghûls, rakshasas, and shapeshifters,but whatever its origins, Chimerstry remains a potentand powerful weapon for the Deceivers. The Disciplineis, fundamentally, an art of conjuration that convertsthe vampire’s will into phantoms that confound thesenses and technology alike. Even vampires fall underthe sway of the Ravnos’ illusory world, unless they havea strong enough grasp of Auspex (see p. 142). The Ravnos often use this power to swindle and seduce theirvictims into acts that work out badly for the victim(but great for the Ravnos).Illusions created by Chimerstry can be seen for whatthey are by a victim who “proves” the illusion’s falsehood (e.g., a person who walks up to an illusory wall,expresses his disbelief in it, and puts his hand throughit effectively banishes the illusion), and explicitly incredible illusions are seen as false immediately (e.g.,
	1:Ignis Fatuus
	*The vampire may conjure a minor, static mirage thatconfounds one sense. For instance, he may evoke a sulfurous stench, the appearance of stigmata, or the shatter of broken glass. Note that though tactile illusionscan be felt, they have no real substance; an invisiblebut tactile wall cannot confine anyone, and invisiblerazor-wire causes no real damage. Similarly, the vampire must know the characteristics of what he’s creating. While it’s easy enough to estimate what a knifewound might look like, falsifying a person’s voice or aphotograph of a childhood home requires knowledgeof the details.
	2:Fata Morgana
	*The Cainite can now create illusions that appeal toall the senses, though they remain static. For example,the vampire could make a filthy cellar appear as an opulent ballroom, though she could not create a glitteringchandelier or a score of graceful dancers. Again, theillusion has no solid presence, though it’s easy enoughto fool an enraptured visitor with suggestions of whatshe might expect. A bucket of brackish water is as coolas chilled champagne, after all.System: The player spends a Willpower point and ablood point to create the illusion. These static imagesremain until dispelled, in much the same way that anIgnis Fatuus illusion does.
	3:Apparition
	*Not really a power unto itself, Apparition allows avampire to give motion to an illusion created with Ignis Fatuus or Fata Morgana. Thus, the Cainite couldcreate the illusion of a living being, running water,fluttering drapes, or a roaring fire.
	**System: The creator spends one blood point to makethe illusion move in one significant way, or in anynumber of subtle ways. For example, the vampire couldcreate the illusion of a lurking mugger lurching at hervictim, or she could create the illusion of a desolatestreet, down which a chill wind blows trash while astreetlamp flickers and hums. Taking complicated actions besides maintaining the illusion — that is, anything that would require a dice roll — first requires success on a Willpower roll, resulting in the dissolution ofthe false construct if the roll fails.Once the creator stops concentrating on the illusion,it can continue in simple, repetitive motions – roughlyspeaking, anything that can be described in a simplesentence, such as a guard walking back and forth infront of a steel door. After that, the vampire cannotregain control over the illusion – she can either allowit to continue moving as ordered, or let it fade as described under Ignis Fatuus.
	4:Permanency
	*This power, also used in conjunction with IgnisFatuus or Fata Morgana, allows a mirage to persist evenwhen the vampire cannot see it. In this way, Ravnosoften cloak their temporary havens in false trappings ofluxury, or ward off trespassers with illusory guard dogs.System: The vampire need only spend a blood point,and the illusion becomes permanent until dissolved(including “programmed” illusions like those createdby Apparition).
	5:Horrid Reality
	*Rather than create simple illusions, the vampirecan now project hallucinations directly into a victim’smind. The target of these illusions believes completelythat the images are real; a hallucinatory fire can burnhim, an imaginary noose can strangle him, and an illusory wall can block him. This power affects only oneperson at a time; though others can see the illusion, itdoesn’t impact them in the same way. Other peoplecan try to convince the victim that his terrors are notreal, but he won’t believe them. Note that targets withenough dots in Auspex can still attempt to roll for Seeing the Unseen (p. 142).System: A Horrid Realty illusion costs two Willpower points to set in motion and lasts for an entirescene (though its effects may last longer; see below).If the vampire is trying to injure his victim, his playermust roll Manipulation + Subterfuge (difficulty of the victim’s Perception + Self-Control/Instinct). Eachsuccess inflicts one health level of lethal damage onthe victim that cannot be soaked — the Cainite assaults the victim’s mind and perceptions, not his body.If the player wishes to inflict less damage or change itto bashing, he may announce a maximum amount ofdamage before rolling the dice. Secondary effects (suchas frenzy rolls for illusory fire) may also occur.The victim heals all his damage instantaneously ifhe can be convinced that the damage he took was illusory, but convincing him may take some doing, suchas with at least two successes on a Charisma + Empathyroll (difficulty equal to the Manipulation + Subterfugeof the Cainite using Horrid Reality). The target mustbe convinced of the attack’s illusory nature within 24hours of its taking place, or it becomes too well established in his memory, and he will have to heal the damage using blood (if a vampire) or over time (if mortal).This power cannot actually kill its victims (though atarget with a heart condition may well die from fright).A victim “killed” by an illusory attack loses consciousness or enters torpor.
	6: False Resonance
	*Illusions of living or unliving beings are all welland good until someone decides to read the illusion’smind or its aura. The automatic failure to perceive anysense of the target’s thoughts or emotions will usuallybe passed off as bad luck, lack of concentration, orwhatever reason any Kindred might construct to explain why he didn’t succeed in gleaning informationthrough supernatural means. A vampire can use FalseResonance to overlay auras and thoughts on illusions,as well as leave a trace that other emotionally resonantpowers can detect later.System: This power automatically applies to anyother use of Chimerstry as the user wishes. In effect,any attempt to use Auspex, the Dementation powerEyes of Chaos, or similar sensory powers that generatesfive or fewer successes will detect an aura, thoughts,Demeanor or whatever the power would normally detect. Thoughts won’t be exceptionally complex, andwill relate to whatever is going on around the illusionin a mundane and simplistic way. Auras will consistof colors related to specific emotions (anger, sadness,hatred, love, and happiness) and will not show muchcomplexity beyond that. Spirit’s Touch can pick up thesame emotional resonance until the next sunrise.
	6: Fatuus Mastery
	*A Ravnos with Fatuus Mastery has no restrictionon how often she may use the first three levels (IgnisFatuus, Fata Morgana, and Apparition) and can maintain or control illusions with minimal concentrationor fatigue. Kindred who rely on the high cost of Chimerstry to limit a vampire’s ability to use illusions are infor a very rude surprise when they encounter a Cainitewith this power.System: Fatuus Mastery negates the Willpower andblood cost for using the first three levels of Chimerstry.In addition, the Kindred may direct movement for anumber of illusions equal to his Intelligence withoutintense concentration. Furthermore, the character canmaintain the illusion as long as it remains within hisWillpower rating in miles (or about one and a halftimes that in kilometers), although he may not makeit react to events around it if he has no way to perceivethose events.
	6: Shared Nightmare
	*Even though Horrid Reality is visible to all onlookers, it can only inflict “damage” on one victim. WithShared Nightmare, a vampire can inflict her tormentedvisions on a crowd.System: To use this power, the player must spendtwo Willpower points, plus one blood point per target.The player rolls Manipulation + Subterfuge once, butcompares the results against each target individually.The difficulty is still each victim’s Perception + SelfControl/Instinct.
	7: Far Fatuus
	*This power allows a Kindred to project illusions toany area he can see or visualize. Under most circumstances, accomplishing this requires him to have visited the location in question before he can project illusions there. Although more difficult, a vampire mayproject illusions on the basis of a description, a photo,or a video clip.System: The difficulty for using Far Fatuus dependson the user’s familiarity with the location. The playermust roll Perception + Subterfuge to affect the location. Once this roll is successful, the vampire may thenuse any other Chimerstry power on that location.
	**Difficulty		Familiarity
		@6 successes		As familiar as one’s haven; currently viewing with Clairvoyance or PsychicProjection
		@7 successes		Visited three or more times
		@8 successes		Visited once; viewing on a live feed
		@9 successes		Described in detail; seen it in a video or have a undoctored photo
	7:Suspension of Disbelief
	*A Ravnos with this power can imbue her Chimerstrywith a sense of reality that makes it easier for viewers to believe in the illusion. No matter how strangeor surreal the illusion is, an onlooker will accept it asreal. If the illusion is wildly unrealistic (fire-breathingdragons, a pack of aliens), once it is no longer in hissight, the observer will question what he saw and eventually deny the event ever happened. A vampire canalso use this power to make something appear unbelievable, whether it’s real or not. In this case, observerswill write off what they’re seeing as some kind of trickor hallucination.System: The player rolls Manipulation + Subterfuge (difficulty 7). The number of successes determineshow many witnesses are affected. If the player uses thepower to make something look unbelievable, Auspexwill show the thing in question to be an illusion unlessthe Auspex rating is not high enough to penetrate theKindred’s Chimerstry.
		@1 success		Five people
		@2 successes		10 people
		@3 successes		25 people
		@4 successes		50 people
		@5 successes		Everyone who can see it
	8:Synesthesia
	*A Cainite who masters this power can shuffle others’ senses around to suit his preferences. He can select one target and inflict a serious, disorienting, andall-encompassing case of synesthesia upon her, making it impossible for her to interact meaningfully withthe real world for the power’s duration. The vampirehas complete control over how the target’s senses workand can manipulate them to suit. For example, he maydecide that she smells all sounds as varieties of nauseating stenches, or more subtly, he may exchange pain forpleasure. Used against a crowd, sensations are randomly shuffled, so one man will see what the woman next to him sees, but hears what the man 15 feet behind himhears and feels what the child a block away feels. Theend result is extremely disorienting for all victims.System: When used against a single victim, the player must spend one Willpower point and roll Manipulation + Intimidation (difficulty is victim’s current Willpower points). For use against crowds, the difficulty is7, and the power affects everyone within the vampire’sline of sight and subtracts one point from Perceptionper success rolled. Victims whose Perception has beenreduced to zero can only sit down and wait for the disorientation to end. Duration against a single victim isdetermined below. Against a crowd, the power persistsuntil sunrise.
		@1 success		One week
		@2 successes		One month
		@3 successes		Six months
		@4 successes		One year
		@5 successes		Permanent
	9:Mayaparisatya
	*This expression of Chimerstry allows the Cainiteto directly alter or create real objects or creatures, although such changes are of finite duration. A vampirewith this power can transform the air around a rivalKindred into fire or render a locked door insubstantial.A more harrowing use of this power enables the vampire to force an object out of existence by transformingit into nothing more than a wisp of its former reality.System: To use this power, the player must spend 10blood points and one permanent Willpower point androll Manipulation + Subterfuge. Difficulty for the rollis 6 for affecting inanimate objects, and the victim’sWillpower rating for affecting characters. This powercan affect anything within miles (kilometers) of thevampire, as long as the character is aware of the targetin some way. If used with Far Fatuus, the effects arecentered on the chosen location. This power can affecta number of conscious targets equal to the Kindred’sWillpower per use.When dealing with inanimate objects, the numberof successes determines how drastic the alteration maybe. No matter how many successes the player rolls, theduration is always a scene. This power can affect anyobjects of a type within the vampire’s targeted area.
		@1 success		Render an object harmless (swordswon’t cut, firearms won’t shoot),create a large volume of obscuringsmoke
		@2 successes		Change an object into another object(turn candles into tarantulas, etc.)
		@3 successes		Render the object insubstantial, makesmoke solid
		@4 successes		Cause drastic changes (stone becomeshighly flammable)
		@5 successes		Cause the environment to behaveillogically (gravity twists sideways,rivers stand still as hills flow upward)
		@6+ successes		Delete any offending material objectsfrom existence. This effect ispermanent (to use this on conscioustargets, follow the system describedbelow).
	**When using the power on conscious targets, consultthe table above for alterations (such as forcing the victim into another form or transforming her into a different substance). If using the power to negate the victim’sexistence, the power inflicts two levels of unsoakableaggravated damage per success. If the power doesn’t killthe victim, subtract one dot of Strength and Staminaper success. The damage must be healed normally, butthe lost Attributes return at the end of the scene. Victims of this power look hazy and insubstantial. Victimsdestroyed with this power simply vanish.

--Dementation
	*Dementation is the Discipline that allows a vampireto focus and channel madness into the minds of thosearound him. Though it’s the natural legacy of the Malkavians, practitioners of Dementation need not actually be mad to use the Discipline… but it helps.Disturbingly, Dementation doesn’t actually maketheir victims mad, but rather it seems to break downthe doors to the hidden darkness of the target’s mind,releasing into the open whatever is found there. TheMalkavians claim that this is because insanity is thenext logical step in mental evolution, a transhumanist advancement of what modern people consider consciousness. Other Kindred scoff that this reasoning isan outright justification for the chaos that Dementation brings. They don’t scoff too loudly, however, lestthe Malkavian advance their consciousness next.
	1:Passion
	*The vampire stirs his victim’s emotions, eitherheightening them to a fevered pitch or blunting themuntil the target is completely desensitized. The Cainite may not choose which emotion is affected; she mayonly amplify or dull emotions already present in thetarget. In this way, a vampire can inflame mild irritation into quivering rage or atrophy true love into casual interest.System: The character talks to her victim, andthe vampire’s player rolls Charisma + Empathy (difficulty equals the victim’s Humanity or Path rating).The number of successes determines the duration ofthe altered state of feeling. Effects of this power mightinclude one- or two-point additions or subtractionsto difficulties of frenzy rolls, Virtue rolls, rolls to resistPresence powers, etc.
		@1 success		One turn
		@2 successes		One hour
		@3 successes		One night
		@4 successes		One week
		@5 successes		One month
		@6+ successes 		One year
	2:The Haunting
	*The vampire manipulates the sensory centers of hisvictim’s brain, flooding the victim’s senses with visions,sounds, scents, or feelings that aren’t really there. Theimages, regardless of the sense to which they appeal,are only fleeting “glimpses,” barely perceptible to thevictim. The vampire using Dementation cannot control what the victim perceives, but may choose whichsense is affected.The “haunting” effects occur mainly when the victim is alone, and mostly at night. They may take theform of the subject’s repressed fears, guilty memories,or anything else that the Storyteller finds dramaticallyappropriate. The effects are never pleasant or unobtrusive, however. The Storyteller should let her imagination run wild when describing these sensory impressions; the victim may well feel as if she is going mad, oras if the world is.
		@1 success		One night
		@2 successes		Two nights
		@3 successes		One week
		@4 successes		One month
		@5 successes		Three months
		@6+ successes 		Three months
	**System: After the vampire speaks to the victim, theplayer spends a blood point and rolls Manipulation +Subterfuge (difficulty of his victim’s Perception + SelfControl/Instinct). The number of successes determinesthe length of the sensory “visitations.” The precise effects are up to the Storyteller, though particularly eerie or harrowing apparitions can certainly reduce dicepools for a turn or two after the manifestation.
	3:Eyes of Chaos
	*This peculiar power allows the vampire to take advantage of the fleeting clarity hidden in insanity. Shemay scrutinize the “patterns” of a person’s soul, theconvolutions of a vampire’s inner nature, or even random events in nature itself. The Kindred with thispower can discern the most well-hidden psychoses, orgain insight into a person’s true self. Malkavians withthis power often have (or claim to have) knowledge ofthe moves and countermoves of the great Jyhad, or thepatterns of fate.
	**System: This power allows a vampire to determine aperson’s true Nature, among other things. The vampireconcentrates for a turn, then her player rolls Perception+ Occult. The difficulty depends on the intricacy of thepattern. Discerning the Nature of a stranger would bedifficulty 9, a casual acquaintance would be an 8, andan established ally a 6. The vampire could also readthe message locked in a coded missive (difficulty 7), oreven see the doings of an invisible hand in such eventsas the pattern of falling leaves (difficulty 6). Almostanything might contain some hidden insight, no matter how trivial or meaningless. The patterns are present in most things, but are often so intricate they cankeep a vampire spellbound for hours while she tries tounderstand their message.This is a potent power, subject to adjudication. Storytellers, this power is an effective way to introduceplot threads for a chronicle, reveal an overlooked clue,foreshadow important events, or communicate critical information a player seeks. Important to its use, though,is delivering the information properly. Secrets revealedvia Eyes of Chaos are never simple facts; they’re tantalizing symbols adrift in a sea of madness. Describe theresults of this power in terms of allegory: “The manbefore you appears as a crude marionette, with garishfeatures painted in bright stage makeup, and stringsvanishing up into the night sky.” Avoid stating plainly,“You learn that this ghoul is the minion of a powerfulMethuselah.”
	4:Voice of Madness
	*By merely addressing his victims aloud, the Kindredcan drive targets into fits of blind rage or fear, forcingthem to abandon reason and higher thought. Victimsare plagued by hallucinations of their subconscious demons, and try to flee or destroy their hidden shames.Tragedy almost always follows in the wake of this power’s use, though offending Malkavians often claim thatthey were merely encouraging people to act “accordingto their natures.” Unfortunately for the vampire concerned, he runs a very real risk of falling prey to hisown voice’s power.System: The player spends a blood point and makesa Manipulation + Empathy roll (difficulty 7). One target is affected per success, although all potential victims must be listening to the vampire’s voice.Affected victims fly immediately into frenzy or ablind fear like Rötschreck. Kindred or other creaturescapable of frenzy, such as Lupines, may make a frenzycheck or Rötschreck test (Storyteller’s choice as to howthey are affected) at +2 difficulty to resist the power.Mortals are automatically affected and don’t remembertheir actions while berserk. The frenzy or fear lasts fora scene, though vampires and Lupines may test as usualto snap out of it.The vampire using Voice of Madness must also testfor frenzy or Rötschreck upon invoking this power,though his difficulty to resist is one lower than normal. If the initial roll to invoke this power is a failure,however, the roll to resist the frenzy is one higher thannormal. If the roll to invoke this power is a botch, thefrenzy or Rötschreck response is automatic.
	5:Total Insanity
	*The vampire coaxes the madness from the deepestrecesses of her target’s mind, focusing it into an overwhelming wave of insanity. This power has drivencountless victims, vampire and mortal alike, to unfortunate ends.
	**System: The Kindred must gain her target’s undivided attention for at least one full turn to enact thispower. The player spends a blood point and rolls Manipulation + Intimidation (difficulty of her victim’scurrent Willpower points). If the roll is successful, thevictim is afflicted with five derangements of the Storyteller’s choice (see p. 290). The number of successesdetermines the duration.
		@1 success		One turn
		@2 successes		One night
		@3 successes		One week
		@4 successes		One month
		@5+ successes 		One year
	**On a botch… well, the Storyteller can decide whata vampire inflicts upon herself by attempting to incitethe primal hells lurking within the darkest recesses ofa victim’s mind.The victim (or the target of a botch) can spend anumber of Willpower points equal to the successesrolled to end the duration prematurely. The Storytellerdecides when such Willpower points can be spent (suchas after a therapy session or after a friend has managedto prove a particular delusion to be false).
	6: Shattered Mirror
	*Although Dementation’s low-level effects are primarily to initiate or promote insanity rather than tocreate it spontaneously, some of its more potent manifestations are not as subtle. The wielder of this fearsome power can transfer her own deranged mindsetinto the psyche of a hapless victim, spreading her ownbrand of insanity like a virus.System: The vampire must establish eye contact(p. 152) with her intended victim to apply this power.The player then rolls Charisma + Subterfuge (difficultyequal to the target’s current Willpower points) resistedby the target’s Wits + Self-Control/Instinct (difficultyequal to the Dementation user’s current Willpowerpoints). If the aggressor wins, the target gains all of herderangements and Mental Flaws for a period of timedetermined by the number of net successes the aggressor scored:
		@1 success		one hour
		@2 successes		one night
		@3 successes		one week
		@4 successes		one month
		@5 successes		six months
		@6+ successes 		one year per success over 5
	6: Lingering Malaise
	*While lesser Dementation powers allow a vampire toinflict temporary (though often long-lasting) madnessupon a victim, elders of the Clan have developed theability to infect the minds of their victims with permanent maladies. Lingering Malaise causes permanentpsychological shifts within the victim, making him, asone Gangrel elder remarked, “an honorary Lunatic.”System: The character speaks to his victim for atleast a minute, describing the derangement that Lingering Malaise will inflict. The player rolls Manipulation + Empathy (difficulty equal to the victim’s currentWillpower points); the victim resists with a Willpowerroll (using his permanent Willpower at difficulty 8). Ifthe user of Lingering Malaise scores more successes, thevictim gains a permanent derangement chosen by theindividual who inflicts it. Lingering Malaise may onlybe used to inflict one derangement per night on anygiven victim, though multiple attempts may be madeuntil the derangement takes hold.
	7: Restructure
	*The elder with this fearsome power has the abilityto twist his victims’ psyches at their most basic levels,warping their very beings. The subject of Restructureretains her memories, but her outlook on life changescompletely, as if she has undergone a sudden epiphanyor religious conversion. This effect goes much deeperthan the implantation of a derangement; it actuallyperforms a complete rewrite of the victim’s personality.System: As the description says, this power allowsthe vampire to change his target’s Nature to one moresuitable to his ends. To accomplish this, the charactermust make eye contact (p. 152) with his intended victim. The player rolls Manipulation + Subterfuge (difficulty equals the victim’s Wits + Subterfuge). If he rollsa number of successes equal to or greater than the target’s Self-Control/Instinct, the target’s Nature changesto whatever the player using Restructure desires. This effect is permanent and can be undone only by anotherapplication of Restructure (though subtle differencesfrom the character’s original Nature may still remain,as it is impossible for such a fundamental change to occur flawlessly). A botch on this roll changes the character’s own Nature to that of his intended victim.
	8: Personal Scourge
	*Similar to the Auspex power of Psychic Assault(p. 141), this fearsome ability allows the elder to turnthe very strength of her victim’s mind against him,inflicting physical harm with the power of his ownwill. Victims of this self-powered attack spontaneouslyerupt in lacerations and bruises, spraying blood in every direction and howling in agony. Those who haveobserved such an attack with Auspex note that thevictim’s aura swirls with violent psychosis and eruptsoutward in writhing appendages — a sight that canmake even the most jaded Tzimisce quail.System: The vampire must touch or establish eyecontact (p. 152) with her target. The player rolls Manipulation + Empathy (difficulty equal to the target’sStamina + Self-Control/Instinct) and spends two Willpower points. For a number of turns equal to the number of successes rolled, the victim rolls his own permanent Willpower as lethal damage against himself. Thisdamage can be soaked with his own Humanity or Pathof Enlightenment (difficulty 6); Fortitude does not addto this soak dice pool, nor does body armor. He maytake no actions during this time other than thrashingand gibbering; this includes spending blood to heal.
	9:Lunatic Eruption
	*This fearsome ability is only known to have beenapplied a few times in recorded Kindred history, mostspectacularly during the final nights of the last battle ofCarthage. It is effectively a psychic nuclear bomb, usedto incite every intelligent being within several miles(kilometers) into an orgy of bloodlust and rage. It issuspected that the Malkavians have used the threat ofthis power as a bargaining chip in several key negotiations.System: The player spends four Willpower pointsand rolls Stamina + Intimidation (difficulty 8). Thearea of effect is determined by the number of successesscored:
		@1 success		One city block
		@2 successes		An entire neighborhood
		@3 successes		A large downtown area
		@4 successes		Several neighborhoods
		@5 successes		An entire metropolitan area(approximately 30 miles or45 kilometers)
		@6+ successes 		An additional 10 miles or 15	kilometers for every success past 5Within this area, all sentient creatures fall preyto their baser instincts. Mortals spontaneously riot,looting and burning between bouts of mass violence.Kindred enter hunger-induced frenzies, draining dryas many vessels as they can sink their fangs into. Anentire city can quite literally be driven temporarily insane by this power. Lunatic Eruption’s effects persistuntil the next sunrise, and anyone entering its area ofeffect (centered on the site at which it was used, noton the character who applied it) falls under its spell.However, momentum may carry the violence spawnedby this power much farther — and keep it going muchlonger — than the power itself can force.Victims of Lunatic Eruption may resist with SelfControl/Instinct rolls (difficulty equal to the Dementation user’s permanent Willpower rating); each successprovides one hour of lucidity, which most wise individuals use to leave the power’s area of effect (leaving the “blast radius” removes the power’s influence).The source of Lunatic Eruption may be pinpointed ifa character is using Heightened Senses or an equivalent power at the time it is used; this is automatic andrequires no roll. However, this grants no knowledge ofwhat actually happened — the observer simply “feels”a massive psychic shockwave explode from the character using the power.
		
--Dominate
	*Dominate is one of the most dreaded of Disciplines.It is a vampire’s ability to influence another person’sthoughts and actions through her own force of will.Dominate requires that the vampire capture her victim’s gaze (see p. 152); as such, it may be used againstonly one subject at a time. Further, commands must beissued verbally, although simple orders may be madewith signs — for example, a pointed finger and forceful expression to indicate “Go!” However, the subjectwon’t comply if he can’t understand the vampire, nomatter how powerful the Kindred’s will is.Perhaps unsurprisingly, vampires to which Dominatecomes naturally tend to be from willful, domineeringClans. The Giovanni, Lasombra, Tremere, and Ventrue all consider an iron will to be a boon, and are eager to impose that iron will on any who would moveagainst them.
	1:Command
	*The vampire locks eyes with the subject and speaksa one-word command, which the subject must be obeyinstantly. The order must be clear and straightforward:run, agree, fall, yawn, jump, laugh, surrender, stop,scream, follow. If the command is at all confusing orambiguous, the subject may respond slowly or performthe task poorly. The subject cannot be ordered to dosomething directly harmful to herself, so a commandlike “die” is ineffective.The command may be included in a sentence, thereby concealing the power’s use from others. This effort at subtlety still requires the Kindred to make eyecontact at the proper moment and stress the key wordslightly. An alert bystander — or even the victim —may notice the emphasis. Still, unless she’s conversantwith supernatural powers, the individual is likely toattribute the utterance and the subsequent action tobizarre coincidence.System: The player rolls Manipulation + Intimidation (difficulty equals the target’s current Willpowerpoints). More successes force the subject to act withgreater vigor or for a longer duration (continue running for a number of turns, go off on a laughing jag,scream uncontrollably).Remember, too, that being commanded to againstone’s Nature confounds the use of this power. Beingtold to “sleep!” in a dangerous situation or “attack!”in police custody may not have the desired effect, orindeed, any effect at all.
	2:Mesmerize
	*With this power, a vampire can verbally implant afalse thought or hypnotic suggestion in the subject’ssubconscious mind. Both Kindred and target must befree from distraction, since Mesmerize requires intenseconcentration and precise wording to be effective. Thevampire may activate the imposed thought immediately or establish a stimulus that will trigger it later. Thevictim must be able to understand the vampire, thoughthe two need to maintain eye contact only as long as ittakes to implant the idea.Mesmerize allows for anything from simple, precisedirectives (handing over an item) to complex, highlyinvolved ones (taking notes of someone’s habits andrelaying that information at an appointed time). It isnot useful for planting illusions or false memories (suchas seeing a rabbit or believing yourself to be on fire). Asubject can have only one suggestion implanted at anytime.
	**System: The player rolls Manipulation + Leadership (difficulty equal to the target’s current Willpowerpoints). The number of successes determines how wellthe suggestion takes hold in the victim’s subconscious.If the vampire scores one or two successes, the subjectcannot be forced to do anything that seems strange toher (she might walk outside, but is unlikely to steal acar). At three or four successes, the command is effective unless following it endangers the subject. At fivesuccesses or greater, the vampire can implant nearlyany sort of command.No matter how strong the Kindred’s will, his command cannot force the subject to harm herself directlyor defy her innate Nature. So, while a vampire whoscored five successes could make a 98-pound weaklingattack a 300-pound bouncer, he could not make themortal shoot herself in the head.If a vampire tries to Mesmerize a subject before thetarget fulfills a previously implanted directive, compare the successes rolled to those gained during the implanting of the first suggestion. Whichever roll had thegreater number of successes is the command that nowgoverns in the target’s behavior; the other suggestion iswiped clean. If the successes rolled are equal, the newercommand supplants the old one.
	3:The Forgetful Mind
	*After capturing the subject’s gaze, the vampire delvesinto the subject’s memories, stealing or re-creatingthem at his whim. The Forgetful Mind does not allowfor telepathic contact; the Kindred operates much likea hypnotist, asking directed questions and drawing outanswers from the subject. The degree of memory alteration depends on what the vampire desires. He may alter the subject’s mind only slightly (quite effective foreliminating memories of the victim meeting or evenbeing fed upon by the vampire) or utterly undo the victim’s memories of her past.The degree of detail used has a direct bearing on howstrongly the new memories take hold, since the victim’s subconscious mind resists the alteration. A simplistic or incomplete false memory (“You went to themovies last night”) crumbles much more quickly thandoes one with more attention to detail (“You thoughtabout texting your girlfriend while you were in line atthe new movie theater, but you knew you’d have toturn your phone off once you got inside. You liked themovie well enough, but the plot seemed weak. Youwere tired after it ended, so you went home, watched alittle late-night television, and went to bed.”).
	**Even in its simplest applications, The Forgetful Mindrequires tremendous skill and finesse. It’s a relativelysimple matter to rifle through a victim’s psyche and ripout the memories of the previous night without knowing what the subject did that evening. Doing so leavesa gap in the victim’s mind, however — a hole that cangive rise to further problems down the road. The Kindred may describe new memories, but these recollections seldom have the same degree of realism that thesubject’s original thoughts held.As such, this power isn’t always completely effective.The victim may remember being bitten, but believe itto be an animal attack. Greater memories may returnin pieces as dreams, or through sensory triggers likea familiar odor or spoken phrase. Even so, months oryears may pass before the subject regains enough of herlost memories to make sense of the fragments.A vampire can also sense when a subject’s memorieswere altered through use of this power, and even restorethem, as a hypnotist draws forth suppressed thoughts.System: The player states what sorts of alteration hewants to perform, then rolls Wits + Subterfuge (difficulty equal to the target’s current Willpower points).Any success pacifies the victim for the amount of timeit takes the vampire to perform the verbal alteration,provided the vampire does not act aggressively towardher. The table below indicates the degree of modification possible to the subject’s memory. If the successesrolled don’t allow for the extent of change the character desired, the Storyteller reduces the resulting impacton the victim’s mind.
		@1 success		May remove a single memory;lasts one day.
		@2 successes		May remove, but not alter, memorypermanently.
		@3 successes		May make slight changes to memory.
		@4 successes		May alter or remove entire scenefrom subject’s memory.
		@5 successes		May reconstruct entire periods ofsubject’s life.
	**To restore removed memories or sense false onesin a subject, the character’s Dominate rating must beequal to or higher than that of the vampire who madethe alteration. In that situation, the player must makea Wits + Empathy roll (difficulty equal to the original vampire’s permanent Willpower rating) and scoremore successes than his predecessor did. However, theKindred cannot use The Forgetful Mind to restore hisown memories if they were stolen in such a way.
	4:Conditioning
	*Through sustained manipulation, the vampire canmake a subject more pliant to the Kindred’s will. Overtime, the victim becomes increasingly susceptible tothe vampire’s influence while simultaneously growingmore resistant to the corrupting efforts of other Kindred. Gaining complete control over a subject’s mindis no small task, taking weeks or even months to accomplish.Kindred often fill their retainers’ heads with subtlewhispers and veiled urges, thereby ensuring these mortals’ loyalty. Yet vampires must pay a high price forthe minds they ensnare. Servants Dominated in thisway lose much of their passion and individuality. Theyfollow the vampire’s orders quite literally, seldom taking initiative or showing any imagination. In the end,such retainers become like automatons or the walkingdead.System: The player rolls Charisma + Leadership (difficulty equal to the target’s current Willpower points)once per scene. Conditioning is an extended action, forwhich the Storyteller secretly determines the numberof successes required. It typically requires between fiveand 10 times the subject’s Self-Control/Instinct rating. Targets with more empathic Natures may requirea lower number of successes, while those with willfulNatures require a higher total. Only through roleplaying may a character discern whether his subject is conditioned successfully.A target may become more tractable even beforebecoming fully conditioned. Once the vampire accumulates half the required number of successes, the Storyteller may apply a lower difficulty to the vampire’ssubsequent uses of Dominate. After being conditioned,the target falls so far under the vampire’s influence thatthe Kindred need not make eye contact or even bepresent to retain absolute control. The subject does exactly as she is told (including taking actions that wouldinjure herself), as long as her master can communicatewith her verbally. No command roll is necessary unless the subject is totally isolated from the vampire’spresence (in a different room, over the phone). Evenif a command roll fails, the target will still likely carryout part of the orders given, simply because her masterwishes it.
	**After the subject is fully conditioned, other Kindredfind her more difficult to Dominate. Such conditioningraises others’ difficulties by two (to a maximum of 10).It is possible, though difficult, to shake Conditioning. The subject must be separated entirely from thevampire to whom she was in thrall. This period ofseparation varies depending on the individual, butthe Storyteller may set it at six months, less a numberof weeks equal to the subject’s permanent Willpowerrating (so a person with 5 Willpower must stay awayfrom the vampire for just under five months). Thesubject regains her personality slowly during this time,though she may still lapse into brief spells of listlessness, despair, or even anger. If the vampire encountersthe target before that time passes, a single successfulCharisma + Leadership roll (difficulty of the target’scurrent Willpower points) on the part of the vampirecompletely reasserts the dominance.If the subject makes it through the time period without intervention by her master, the target regains herformer individuality. Even so, the vampire may reestablish conditioning more easily than the first time,since the subject is now predisposed to falling underthe Kindred’s mental control. New attempts requirehalf the total number of successes than the last bout ofconditioning did (which means the subject reaches thethreshold for reduced difficulties sooner, as well).
	**possessed in this way, although ghouls that have drunkfrom the vampire using Possession can.System: The vampire must completely strip away thetarget’s Willpower prior to possessing her. The playerspends a Willpower point, then rolls Charisma + Intimidation, while the subject rolls his Willpower in aresisted action (difficulty 7 for each). For each successthe vampire obtains over the victim’s total, the targetloses a point of temporary Willpower. Only if the attacker botches can the subject escape her fate, sincethis makes the target immune to any further Dominateattempts by that vampire for the rest of the story.Once the target loses all her temporary Willpower,her mind is open. The vampire rolls Manipulation +Intimidation (difficulty 7) to determine how fully heassumes control of the mortal shell. Similar to the Animalism power Subsume the Spirit, multiple successesallow the character to utilize some mental Disciplines,noted on the chart below. (Vampires possessing ghoulscan use the physical Disciplines the ghoul possesses,but not the mental ones.)
	5:Possession
	*At this level of Dominate, the force of the Kindred’spsyche is such that it can utterly supplant the mind ofa mortal subject. Speaking isn’t required, but the vampire must capture the victim’s gaze. During the psychicstruggle, the contestants’ eyes are locked on one another.
	**Once the Kindred overwhelms the subject’s mind,the vampire moves his consciousness into the victim’sbody and controls it as easily as he uses his own. Themortal falls into a mental fugue while under possession.She is aware of events only in a distorted, dreamlikefashion. In turn, the vampire’s mind focuses entirelyon controlling his mortal subject. His own body liesin a torpid state, defenseless against any actions madetoward it.Vampires cannot possess one another in this fashion,as even the weakest Kindred’s mind is strong enoughto resist such straightforward mental dominance. Onlythrough a blood bond can one vampire control anotherto this degree. Supernatural creatures also cannot be
	**The character may travel as far from his body as he isphysically able while possessing the mortal. The vampire may also venture out during the day in the mortalform. However, the vampire’s own body must be awaketo do so, requiring a successful roll to remain awake(see p. 262). If the vampire leaves the mortal shell (bychoice, if his body falls asleep, through supernatural expulsion, after sustaining significant injury, etc.), his consciousness returns to his physical form in an instant.Once freed from possession, the mortal regains mental control of herself. This can happen in an instant, orthe victim may lie comatose for days while her psychecopes with the violation.
	**The vampire experiences everything the mortal bodyfeels during possession, from pleasure to pain. In fact,any damage the victim’s body sustains is also appliedto the character’s body (though the Kindred may soakas normal). If the mortal dies before the vampire’s soulcan flee from the body, the character’s body falls intotorpor. Presumably this is in sympathetic response tothe massive trauma of death, though some Kindred believe that the vampire’s soul is cast adrift during thistime and must find its way back to the body.The Kindred can remain in the mortal’s body even ifhis own torpid form is destroyed, though such a patheticcreature is not likely to exist for long. At each sunrise,the vampire must roll Courage (difficulty 8) or be expelled from the body. If forced from the mortal body, thevampire tumbles into the astral plane, his soul permanently lost in the spirit world. A vampire trapped in amortal body may not be “re-Embraced.” If the Embraceoccurs to such a creature, he simply meets Final Death.
		@1 success		Cannot use Disciplines
		@2 successes		Can use Auspex and other sensorypowers
		@3 successes		Can also use Presence and otherpowers of emotional manipulation
		@4 successes		Can also use Dementation,Dominate, and other powersof mental manipulation
		@5 successes		Can also use Chimerstry,Necromancy, Thaumaturgy,and other mystical powers
	6: Chain the Psyche
	*Not content with merely commanding their subjects,some elders apply this power to ensure obedience fromrecalcitrant victims. Chain the Psyche is a Dominatetechnique that inflicts incapacitating pain on a targetwho attempts to break the vampire’s commands.System: The player spends a blood point when hercharacter applies Dominate to a subject. Any attemptthat the subject makes to act against the vampire’simplanted commands or to recover stolen memoriescauses intense pain. When such an attempt is made,the Storyteller rolls the character‘s Manipulation + Intimidation (difficulty equal to the subject’s Stamina +Empathy). Each success equals one turn that the victim is unable to act, as she is wracked with agony. Eachapplication of Chain the Psyche crushes a number ofresistance attempts equal to the character’s Manipulation rating, after which the effect fades.
	6: Loyalty
	*With this power in effect, the elder’s Dominate is sostrong that other vampires find it almost impossible tobreak with their own commands. Despite the name,Loyalty instills no special feelings in the victim — thevampire’s commands are simply implanted far moredeeply than normal.System: Any other vampire attempting to employDominate on a subject who has been Dominated by avampire with Loyalty has a +3 difficulty modifier to hisrolls and must spend an additional Willpower point.
	7: Obedience
	*While most Kindred must employ Dominate througheye contact, some powerful elders may command loyalty with the lightest brush of a hand.System: The character can employ all Dominatepowers through touch instead of eye contact (althougheye contact still works). Skin contact is necessary —simply touching the target’s clothing or something sheis holding will not suffice. The touch does not have tobe maintained for the full time it takes to issue a Dominate command, though repeated attempts to Dominatea single target require the character to touch the subject again.
	7: Mass Manipulation
	*A truly skilled elder may command small crowdsthrough the use of this power. By manipulating thestrongest minds within a given group, a gathering maybe directed to the vampire’s will.System: The player declares that he is using thispower before rolling for the use of another Dominatepower. The difficulty of the roll is that which would berequired to Dominate the most resistant member of thetarget group — if he cannot be Dominated, no one inhis immediate vicinity can. For every success past thatneeded to inflict the desired result on the first target,the player may choose one additional target to receivethe same effect in its entirety. The vampire needs tomake eye contact only with the initial target.
	7:Still the Mortal Flesh
	*Despite its name, this power may be employed onvampires as well as mortals, and it has left more thanone unfortunate victim writhing in agony — or unableto do even that. A vampire who has developed thispower is able to override her victim’s body as easily ashis mind in order to cut off his senses or even stop hisheart. It is rumored that this power once came moreeasily to the Kindred, but modern medicine has madethe bodies and spirits of mortals more resistant to suchmanipulations.System: The player rolls Manipulation + Medicine(difficulty equal to the target’s current Willpowerpoints + 2; a difficulty over 10 means that this powercannot affect the target at all). The effect lasts for oneturn per success. The player must choose what function of the target’s body is being cut off before rolling.She may affect any of the body’s involuntary functions;breathing, circulation, perspiration, sight, and hearingare all viable targets. While Still the Mortal Flesh is in effect, a vampire can either stop any one of those functions entirely or cause them to fluctuate erratically.The exact effects of any given bodily function beingshut off are left to the Storyteller. Most mortals panicif suddenly struck blind, but only the shutdown of theheart will kill a target on the spot. Vampires are unaffected by loss of heartbeat or breathing, but may berendered deaf and blind as easily as mortals.
	8:Far Mastery
	*This refinement of Obedience (though the characterneed not have learned Obedience first) allows the useof Dominate on any subject that the vampire is familiarwith, at any time, over any distance. If the elder knowswhere his target is, he may issue commands as if hewere standing face- to-face with his intended victim.System: The player spends a Willpower point androlls Perception + Empathy (difficulty equal to the subject’s Wits + Stealth) to establish contact. If this rollsucceeds, Dominate may be used as if the character hadestablished eye contact with the target. A second Willpower point must be spent in order for a vampire to usethis power on another vampire or other supernaturalbeing.
	9:Speak Through the Blood
	*The power structures of Methuselahs extend acrosscontinents and centuries. This power allows such ancients to wield control over their descendants, eventhose far outside their geographic spheres of influence.Speak Through the Blood allows an elder to issue commands to every vampire whose lineage can be tracedto her — even if the two have never met. Thus, entire broods act to further the goals of sleeping ancientswhose existences they may be completely unaware of.The vampires affected by this power rarely act directlyto pursue the command they were given, but over adecade or so, their priorities slowly shift until the fulfillment of the Methuselah‘s command is among theirlong-term goals. Speak Through the Blood, because ittakes effect so slowly, is rarely recognized as an outsideinfluence, and its victims rationalize their behavior as“growing and changing,” or something to that effect. 
	**System: The player spends a permanent Willpowerpoint and rolls Manipulation + Leadership. The difficulty of this roll is equal to four plus the number ofGenerations to which the command is to be passed.Unless the character is aware of the location and present agenda of every descendant of his — a highly unlikely event — he may only issue general commands, such as “work for the greater glory of Clan Malkavian”or “destroy all those who seek to extinguish the lightof knowledge.” Speak Through the Blood can be usedby a vampire in torpor. Commands issued through thispower last for one decade per success on the roll. Difficulties over 10 require one additional success for eachpoint past 10, making it that much more difficult toissue long-lasting commands stretching down to theends of one’s lineage.A vampire who has reached Golconda is not affectedby this power, and is completely unaware that it hasbeen used. Her childer, however, are affected normallyunless they are also enlightened. Ghouls of the victimsof this power are also affected, but to a lesser extent.

--Fortitude
	*Although all vampires have an unnatural constitutionthat make them much sturdier than mortals, Fortitudebestows a resilience that would make an action moviehero envious. Vampires with this Discipline can shrugoff agonizing trauma and make the most bone-shattering impact look like a flesh wound. The power even offers protection against the traditional banes of vampires,such as sunlight and fire, and the Gangrel, Ravnos, andVentrue all find that edge incredibly useful.System: A character’s rating in Fortitude adds to hisStamina for the purposes of soaking normal damage(bashing and lethal). A character with this Disciplinemay also use his dots in Fortitude to soak aggravateddamage, though Kindred cannot normally soak thingslike vampire bites, werewolf claws, magical effects, fire,sunlight, or massive physical trauma. See p. 272, forfurther details on soaking and damage.Fortitude 6+Elder vampires progress in Fortitude in the same wayas Celerity (see p. 142). They can increase their basicmastery of the Discipline or to take an alternate powersuch as one of those detailed below.
	6: Personal Armor
	*Nobody likes to get hit, not even Cainites. Theeasiest way to ensure that one is not hit (or shot, orstabbed) repeatedly is to take the weapon with whichone is assaulted away from one’s attacker and break it.That’s where Personal Armor comes in. This application of Fortitude, derived from one popular in the 12thcentury, causes anything that strikes a Kindred whoemploys Personal Armor to shatter on impact.System: With the expenditure of two blood points,a vampire can add preternatural hardness to his flesh.Every time an attack is made on the Kindred using Personal Armor (one which he fails to dodge), his playerrolls Fortitude (difficulty 8). If the roll grants more successes than the attacker rolled, then the weapon usedto make the attack shatters against the vampire’s flesh.(“Magical” weapons may be resistant to this effect, atthe Storyteller’s discretion.) The vampire still takesnormal damage if the attack is successful, even if theweapon shatters in the process, though this damagemay be soaked. If the attack roll botches, any normalweapon automatically shatters.A hand-to-hand attack causes the attacker equaldamage to that suffered by the defender when PersonalArmor comes into play. If the attacker misses entirely,she still takes one level of bashing damage.The effects of this power last for the duration of thescene.
	7: Shared Strength
	*It’s one thing to laugh off bullets, rather another towatch the ricochets mow down everyone around you.Many Kindred have wished, at one time or another,that they could lend their monstrous vitality to thosearound them. Those few vampires who have masteredShared Strength can — if only for a little while.System: Shared Strength duplicates a portion of avampire’s Fortitude (one dot for every point of bloodthe vampire spends) to another being. Activating thepower requires a Stamina + Survival roll (difficulty 8,increased to 9 if the target is not a normal mortal), andthe expenditure of a point of Willpower. Furthermore,the vampire must mark his target by pressing a drop ofhis blood onto the target’s forehead. This stain remainsvisible as long as the power is in effect, the duration ofwhich is determined by the initial roll.
		@1 success		One turn
		@2 successes		One scene
		@3 successes		One hour
		@4 successes		One night
		@5 successes		One week
		@6 successes		One month
		@7 successes		One year
	**The target of this power need not be willing to accept the benefit to receive it, and the bestowing vampire can end the effect at any time for no cost. Particularly sadistic Kindred have come up with any numberof ways in which a target’s “devil’s mark” and supernatural endurance can be used to land him in a greatdeal of trouble.A vampire can never bestow more levels of Fortitudethan he himself possesses.
	8: Adamantine
	*Adamantine functions as a more potent version ofPersonal Armor.System: This power mimics the effects of PersonalArmor, save that the vampire who uses it takes nodamage from attacks that shatter on her skin.

--Obfuscate
	*Obfuscate is the uncanny ability for Kindred to conceal themselves from sight, sometimes even in fullview of a crowd. An Obfuscated vampire doesn’t actually become invisible, however — rather, he is able todelude observers into believing that he has vanished.Obfuscate also allows Kindred to change their featuresand conceal other people or objects. Typically vampires using Obfuscate must be within a short range oftheir witnesses (approximately five yards or meters perdot of Wits + Stealth) for their power to be effective.Unless the Kindred chooses to make herself seen,she can remain obscured for as long as she wills it. Athigher levels, the vampire can actually fade from sight so subtly that those nearby can’t actually recall the moment at which she left.Usually, few mortals or supernaturals (even thosetrained in Awareness) can pierce through the fog ofObfuscate. Animals, who rely more on their instinctsthan their normal senses, can sometime perceive (andbe frightened by) the vampire’s presence. Children andthose to whom deception is foreign may also be ableto pierce the illusion, at the Storyteller’s discretion.Finally, the Auspex Discipline enables Kindred to seethrough Obfuscate. Even that is not guaranteed, however; refer to “Seeing the Unseen,” p. 142, for moredetails. (Storytellers needing a die roll for animals orchildren can use this quick and dirty guideline: treatthem as if they had Auspex 1 in terms of contestingObfuscate. They do not have the Auspex 1 power, butare considered to have it when determining whether avampire is noticed.)Since Obfuscate clouds the mind of the viewer, vampires can’t use it to hide their presence from electronicor mechanical devices. Video and photo cameras, forexample, capture the vampire’s image accurately. Evenso, the person using, say, her cell phone to record anObfuscated vampire will still have her mind impactedby the power, and she won’t see the Kindred’s image until she views the video at a later date (if eventhen).Several Clans cultivate this power — the Assamites, Followers of Set, and Malkavians, for example— but the Nosferatu are particularly known for thisDiscipline. Some elder Kindred believe that Caine, orperhaps Lilith, bestowed the Clan with this Disciplineto compensate for the hideous physical deformities itsmembers suffer.Most Obfuscate powers last for a scene, or until thevampire ceases maintaining them. Once evoked, theyrequire very little mental effort to keep in place.
	1:Cloak of Shadows
	*At this level, the vampire must rely on nearby shadows and cover to assist in hiding his presence. He stepsinto an out-of-the-way, shadowed place and eases himself from normal sight. The vampire remains unnoticedas long as he stays silent, still, under some degree ofcover (such as a curtain, bush, door frame, lamppost,or alley), and out of direct lighting. The immortal’sconcealment vanishes if he moves, attacks, or falls under direct light. Furthermore, the vampire’s deceptioncannot stand up to concentrated observation withoutfading.
	**System: No roll is required as long as the characterfulfills the criteria described above. So long as he remains quiet and motionless, virtually no one but another Kindred with a high enough Auspex rating willsee him.
	2:Unseen PresenceWith experience, the vampire can move aroundwithout being seen. Shadows seem to shift to coverhim, and people automatically avert their gazes as hepasses by. Others move unconsciously to avoid contactwith the cloaked creature; those with weak wills mayeven scurry away from the area in unacknowledgedfear. The vampire remains ignored indefinitely unlesssomeone deliberately seeks him out or he inadvertentlyreveals himself.Since the vampire fully retains his physical substance, he must be careful to avoid contact with anything that may disclose his presence (knocking over avase, bumping into someone). Even a whispered wordor the scuffing of a shoe against the floor can be enoughto disrupt the power.System: No roll is necessary to use this power unlessthe character speaks, attacks, or otherwise draws attention to himself. The Storyteller should call for a Wits +Stealth roll under any circumstances that might causethe character to reveal himself. The difficulty of theroll depends on the situation; stepping on a squeakyfloorboard might be a 5, while walking through a poolof water may require a 9. Other acts may require a certain number of successes; speaking quietly without giving away one’s position, for instance, demands at leastthree successes. Upon success, the vampire, all herclothing, and objects that could fit into a pocket areconcealed.Some things are beyond the power of Unseen Presence to conceal. Although the character is cloakedfrom view while he smashes through a window, yellsout, or throws someone across the room, the vampirebecomes visible to all in the aftermath. Bystanders snapout of the subtle fugue in which Obfuscate put them.Worse still, each viewer can make a Wits + Awarenessroll (difficulty 7); if successful, the mental haze clearscompletely, so those individuals recall every move thecharacter made up until then as if he had been visiblethe entire time.
	3:Mask of a Thousand 
	*FacesThe vampire can influence the perception of others,causing them to see a face different from his. Although the Kindred’s physical form does not change, any observer who cannot sense the truth sees whomever thevampire wishes her to see.The vampire must have a firm idea of the visage hewishes to project. The primary decision is whether tocreate an imaginary face or to superimpose the featuresof another person. Manufactured features are oftenmore difficult to compose in believable proportions,but such a disguise is easier to maintain than having toimpersonate someone else. Of course, things get simpler if the Kindred borrows the face but doesn’t botherwith the personality.System: The player rolls Manipulation + Performance (difficulty 7) to determine how well the disguiseworks. If the character tries to impersonate someone,he must get a good look at the subject before puttingon the mask. The Storyteller may raise the difficulty ifthe character catches only a glimpse. The chart belowlists the degrees of success in manufacturing anotherappearance. Vampires wishing to mask themselves asa person more attractive than they are must pay additional blood points equal to the difference betweenthe vampire’s Appearance rating and the Appearanceof the mask (which means that younger vampires mayneed to take longer in order to spend the blood necessary).
		@1 success		The vampire retains the same heightand build, with a few slightalterations to his basic features.Nosferatu can appear as normal,albeit ugly, mortals.
		@2 successes		He looks unlike himself; people don’teasily recognize him or agree abouthis appearance.
		@3 successes		He looks the way he wants to appear.
		@4 successes		Complete transformation, includinggestures, mannerisms, appearance,and voice.
		@5 successes		Profound alteration (appear as theopposite sex, a vastly different age,or an extreme change of size).
	**Actually posing as someone else carries its own problems. The character should know at least basic information about the individual; especially difficult deceptions (fooling a lover or close friend) require at leastsome familiarity with the target in order to succeed.
	4:Vanish from the Mind’s Eye
	*This potent expression of Obfuscate enables thevampire to disappear from plain view. So profound isthis vanishing that the immortal can fade away even ifhe stands directly in front of someone.While the disappearance itself is quietly subtle, itsimpact on those who see it is anything but. Most kinepanic and flee in the aftermath. Especially weak-willedindividuals wipe the memory of the Kindred from theirminds. Although vampires are not shaken so easily,even Kindred may be momentarily surprised by a sudden vanishing.System: The player rolls Charisma + Stealth; thedifficulty equals the target’s Wits + Alertness (use thehighest total in the group if the character disappearsin front of a crowd). With three or fewer successes,the character fades but does not vanish, becoming anindistinct, ghostlike figure. With more than three, hedisappears completely. If the player scores more successes than an observer’s Willpower rating, that personforgets that the vampire was there in the first place.Tracking the character accurately while he appearsghostlike requires a Perception + Alertness roll (difficulty 8). A successful roll means the individual caninteract normally with the vampire (although theKindred looks like a profoundly disturbing ghostlyshape). A failed roll results in a +2 difficulty modifier (maximum 10) when attempting to act upon, orinteract with, the vampire. The Storyteller may callfor new observation checks if the vampire moves to anenvironment in which he’s difficult to see (heads intoshadows, crosses behind an obstacle, proceeds througha crowd). When fully invisible, the vampire is handledas described under Unseen Presence, above. vokes the power gives himself away, the cloak fallsfrom everyone. This power is particularly useful if thevampire needs to bring his retinue through a secure location without drawing the notice of others.System: The character may conceal one extra individual for each dot of Stealth he possesses. He may bestow any single Obfuscate power at a given time to thegroup. While the power applies to everyone under thecharacter’s cloak, his player need only make a singleroll. Each individual must follow the requirements described under the relevant Obfuscate power to remainunder its effect; any person who fails to do so loses thecloak’s protection, but doesn’t expose the others. Onlyif the vampire himself errs does the power drop for everyone.
	**A person subject to the vanishing makes a Wits +Courage roll (mortals at difficulty 9, vampires at difficulty 5). A successful roll means the individual reactsimmediately (although after the vampire performs hisaction for that turn); failure means the person standsuncomprehending for two turns while her mind tries tomake sense of what she just experienced.
	5:Cloak the Gathering
	*At this degree of power, the vampire may extendhis concealing abilities to cover an area. The immortal may use any Obfuscate power upon those nearby aswell as upon himself, if he wishes.Any protected person who compromises the cloakexposes himself to view. Further, if the one who in-
	6: Conceal
	*The vampire may mask an inanimate object up tothe size of a house (Obfuscate cannot be used to disguise inanimate objects without the use of this power).If the object is hidden, so are all of its contents. WhileConceal is in effect, passersby walk around the concealed object as if it were still visible, but refuse to acknowledge that they are making any kind of detour.System: In order to activate this power, a charactermust be within about 30 feet (approximately 10 meters) of the object to be concealed and the item musthold some personal significance for him. The Concealpower functions as Unseen Presence for purposes ofdetection, as well as the duration and durability of thedisguise.
	**Conceal can be used on a vehicle in which the character is traveling. In this instance, traffic patterns seemto flow around the vehicle, and accidents are actuallyless likely as other drivers subconsciously maneuveraway from the concealed auto. A police radar gun stillregisters a speeding car masked in this fashion, but theofficer behind the gun is disinclined to make a trafficstop of the phantom blip. Using Conceal on aircraftis problematic, as the power’s range generally doesn’textend far enough to cover air traffic controllers andthe like.
	6: Mind Blank
	*A vampire with this power is able to shrug off telepathic contact, easily withstanding invasive probes ofher mind.System: Any attempt to read or probe the character’smind first requires a successful Perception + Empathyroll (difficulty equal to the character’s Wits + Stealth).
	**Even if a potential intruder does succeed, his dice poolfor the attempt is then limited to the number of successes he scored on the initial roll.
	6: Soul Mask
	*In addition to concealing her form, a vampire whohas developed Soul Mask is able to conceal her aura.She may display whatever combination of colors andshades she wishes, or may appear to have no aura whatsoever. This power is of particular use to those of elderGeneration who have reached such heights of powerthrough diablerie.System: The use of this power allows the projection of only one aura (or lack thereof) — the vampirechooses the precise colors to be displayed when she firstdevelops Soul Mask. If the character has no experiencewith the use of Aura Perception, she may not choosean alternate aura, as she has no idea what one wouldlook like, though she can still choose to display no aurawhatsoever. Soul Mask can be bought multiple times,if desired, in order to give a vampire multiple alternateauras from which to choose.Unless the player states otherwise, Soul Mask is always in effect. If the character has bought Soul Masktwo or more times, her “default” aura displayed is thefirst one she learned.
	7: Cache
	*Most Obfuscate powers require the individual usingthem to be within a short distance of the subjects ofthe concealment. Cache extends this range considerably, allowing an elder with this power to leave peopleor objects safely hidden while he goes about his business elsewhere.System: A character must be within the normal required distance to initiate an Obfuscate power. Oncethis is done, the player spends a Willpower point, whichactivates Cache on top of the already functioning useof the Discipline. The concealment will now remainin effect as long as the vampire is within a distanceequal to his Wits + Stealth in miles (or one and halftimes that in kilometers) from the object or person hewishes to conceal. The enhanced concealment fades atthe next sunrise, or breaks (as always) if the Obfuscatesubject reveals himself.
	7:Veil of Blissful Ignorance
	*This power’s development is attributed to the Malkavians, but many Nosferatu have also found it to behighly useful. The Veil of Blissful Ignorance allows a vampire to Obfuscate an unwilling victim, removinghim from the notice of others. Some Nosferatu use thispower to teach a humbling lesson to individuals whotake the presence and aid of others for granted, whileothers utilize it to remove an essential member of agroup in the midst of a crisis.System: The character must touch the victim to activate this power. The player spends a blood point androlls Wits + Stealth (difficulty equals the victim’s Appearance + 3). If the roll is a success, the victim is subject to the effects of Vanish From the Mind’s Eye for alength of time determined by the number of successesthe player rolls.
		@1 success		Three turns
		@2 successes		One minute (20 turns)
		@3 successes		15 minutes
		@4 successes		One hour
		@5 successes		One night
	**The victim of Veil of Blissful Ignorance does not necessarily know that he is under the effect of this power.He is only aware that everyone around him has suddenly begun acting as if he were not there. The victimcannot break this effect, even with violence; if he attacks someone, the target ascribes the act to the visibleindividual nearest to him. More than one fatal brawlhas been incited by this side-effect. The Veil persistseven if the vampire who activated it leaves the area.Curiously enough, Veil of Blissful Ignorance cannever be used on anyone who is ready and willing toaccept its effects.
	8:Old Friend
	*Many elder Nosferatu have made reputations for omniscience with the secrets they learn through creativeuses of this power. A variation of Mask of a ThousandFaces, Old Friend allows a vampire to probe a subject’ssubconscious and take the semblance of the individualwhom that victim trusts over anyone else. Someoneusing this power does not appear as someone who thevictim is frightened of or awed by, but rather someoneto whom the victim feels comfortable revealing intimate secrets. Old Friend doesn’t necessarily make itsuser appear as someone who is still among the living; along- dead friend or relative is just as likely, and in suchcases the subject remembers the encounter as a dreamor a ghostly visitation.
	**System: The player rolls Manipulation + Subterfuge(difficulty equal to the victim’s Perception + Alertness or Awareness, maximum 10). The more successes,the more convincing the impersonation. This poweronly affects one victim at a time; other observers seethe vampire as she truly is, unless she also establishesa Mask of a Thousand Faces in addition to using OldFriend.
	9:Create Name
	*Some Toreador call this power the ultimate development of method acting. Create Name allows a character to create a completely new identity; face, speechpattern, aura, even thought processes are constructedaccording to the vampire’s desired identity. The powercan be used to impersonate an existing individual, orit can project the semblance of a completely fictionalidentity with perfect accuracy.System: A vampire working with Create Name mustspend three hours a night in relatively uninterruptedquiet to establish a new personality by means of thispower. The player makes an extended roll of Intelligence + Subterfuge (difficulty 8), one roll per night. Atotal of 20 successes are necessary to construct a newidentity, while a botch removes five successes from thevampire’s total. Once a new identity has been successfully created, however, the character can step into it atany time without any sort of roll. Any outside observerwithout Auspex 9 or the equivalent sees the artificialidentity. The character’s face, aura, Nature, Demeanor,even thoughts and Psychological Merits and Flaws allappear to be those of the persona selected and craftedby the character.The only way to pierce this disguise, other than Auspex 9, is to notice any discrepancies between the assumed identity and the Abilities it logically ought topossess. A character with no dots in Medicine shouldhave a hard time pulling off a created identity as a neurosurgeon, for example. The Storyteller should make asecret roll of Perception + Alertness (difficulty 9) foreach character who should catch a slip made by theimpostor.

--Obtenebration
	*The signature power of the Lasombra, Obtenebration grants the vampire power over darkness itself. Thenature of the darkness invoked by Obtenebration isa matter of intense debate among Kindred. Some believe it to be merely shadows, while others feel that the power gives control over the stuff of the vampire’s soul,coaxing it tangibly outward.Regardless, the effects of Obtenebration are terrifying, as waves of darkness roil out from the Cainite, enveloping those in their path like an infernal wave. AsObtenebration is mostly known as a Sabbat Discipline,any Camarilla vampire caught using the power hadbetter have a damned good explanation.Note: Vampires using Obtenebration can see throughthe darkness they control, though other vampires (eventhose that also have Obtenebration) cannot. Dreadfultales of rival Lasombra struggling to blind and smothereach other with the same wisps of darkness circulateamong young members of the Clan, though no eldershave come forth to substantiate these claims.
	1:Shadow Play
	*This power grants the vampire limited control overshadows and other ambient darkness. Though the vampire cannot truly “create” darkness, she can overlap andstretch existing shadows, creating patches of gloom.This power also allows Kindred to separate shadowsfrom their casting bodies and even shape darkness intothe shadows of things that are not there.Once a Kindred takes control of darkness or shadow,it gains a mystical tangibility. By varying accounts coldor hellishly hot and cloying, the darkness may be usedto aggravate or even smother victims. Certain callousLasombra claim to have choked mortals to death withtheir own shadows.System: This power requires no roll, but a bloodpoint must be spent to activate it. Shadow Play lasts forone scene and requires no active concentration. Kindred cloaking themselves in shadow gain an extra diein their Stealth dice pools and add one to the difficulties of ranged weapon attacks against them. Vampireswho use the darkness to make themselves more terrifying add one die to Intimidation dice pools. Opponentsplagued by flapping shadows and strangling darknesssubtract one die from all Stamina dice pools (including soak). Mortals, ghouls, and other air-breathers reduced to zero Stamina by strangling shadows begin toasphyxiate; vampires lose all appropriate dice but areotherwise unaffected. Only one target or subject maybe affected by this power at any given time, thoughsome modicum of concealment is offered to a relativelymotionless group.The unnatural appearance of this power proves extremely disconcerting to mortals and animals (and, atthe Storyteller’s discretion, Kindred who have never seen it before). Whenever this power is invoked withina mortal’s vicinity, that individual must make a Courage roll (difficulty 8) or suffer a one-die penalty to alldice pools for the remainder of the scene, due to fear ofthe monstrous shadows.
	2:Shroud of Night
	*The vampire can create a cloud of inky blackness.The cloud completely obscures light and even soundto some extent. Those who have been trapped withinit (and survived) describe the cloud as viscous and unnerving. This physical manifestation lends credence tothose Lasombra who claim that their darkness is something other than mere shadow.The tenebrous cloud may even move, if the creatingKindred wishes, though this requires complete concentration.System: The player rolls Manipulation + Occult(difficulty 7). Success on the roll generates darknessroughly 10 feet (three meters) in diameter, thoughthe amorphous cloud constantly shifts and undulates,sometimes even extending shadowy tendrils. Eachadditional success doubles the diameter of the cloud(though the vampire may voluntarily reduce the areashe wishes to cover). The cloud may be invoked ata distance of up to 50 yards/meters, though creatingdarkness outside the vampire’s line of sight adds twoto the difficulty of the roll and requires a blood point’sexpenditure.The tarry mass actually extinguishes light sources itengulfs (with the exception of fire), and muffles soundsuntil they are indistinguishable. Those within thecloud lose all sense of sight and feel as though they’vebeen immersed in pitch. Sound also warps and distortswithin the cloud, making it nearly impossible to accomplish anything (+2 difficulty, as per Blind Fighting on p. 274). Even those possessed of HeightenedSenses, Eyes of the Beast, Tongue of the Asp, and similar powers suffer the penalty for blindness due to theunnatural darkness. Additionally, being surrounded bythe Shroud of Night reduces Stamina-based dice poolsby two dice, as the murk smothers and agitates the victims. This effect is not cumulative with Shadow Play,although targets asphyxiate as per Shadow Play if theyreach 0 Stamina; more than one unfortunate mortalhas “drowned” in darkness.Mortals and animals surrounded by the Shroudof Night must make Courage rolls per Shadow Play,above, or panic and flee.
	3:Arms of the Abyss
	*Refining his control over darkness, the Kindred cancreate prehensile tentacles that emerge from patches ofdim lighting. These tentacles may grasp, restrain, andconstrict foes.
	**System: The player spends a blood point and makesa simple (never extended) Manipulation + Occult roll(difficulty 7); each success enables the creation of asingle tentacle. Each tentacle is six feet (two meters)long and possesses Strength and Dexterity ratings equalto the invoking vampire’s Obtenebration Trait — Potence and Celerity dots are added to these Strength andDexterity ratings, respectively. If the vampire chooses,she may spend a blood point either to increase a singletentacle’s Strength or Dexterity by one or to extend itslength by another six feet or two meters. Each tentaclehas four health levels, is affected by fire and sunlightas if it were a vampire, and soaks bashing and lethaldamage using the vampire’s Stamina + Fortitude. Aggravated damage may not be soaked.
	**Tentacles may constrict foes, inflicting (Strength +1)lethal damage per turn. Breaking the grasp of a tentacle requires the victim to win a resisted Strength rollagainst the tentacle (difficulty 6 for each). However,tentacles cannot be used for any kind of manipulation,such as typing or driving.All tentacles need not emanate from the same source— so long as there are multiple patches of suitabledarkness, there are sources for the Arms of the Abyss.Controlling the tentacles does not require completeconcentration; if the Kindred is not incapacitated orin torpor, she may control tentacles while carrying outother actions.
	4:Black Metamorphosis
	*The Cainite calls upon his inner darkness and infuses himself with it, becoming a monstrous hybrid ofmatter and shadow. His body becomes mottled withspots of tenebrous shade, and wispy tentacles extrudefrom his torso and abdomen. Though still humanoid,the vampire takes on an almost demonic appearance,as the darkness within him bubbles to the surface.System: The player spends two blood points andmakes a Manipulation + Courage roll (difficulty 7) —vampires of lower Generation may have to take twoturns to make the transition. Failure indicates the vampire cannot undergo the Black Metamorphosis (thoughhe spends the blood points nonetheless). A botch inflicts two unsoakable health levels of lethal damage onthe vampire as darkness ravages his undead body.
	**While under the effects of the Black Metamorphosis,the vampire possesses four tentacles similar to thoseevoked via Arms of the Abyss (though their Strengthand Dexterity ratings are equal to the vampire’s ownAttributes, including dice from Celerity and Potence).These tentacles, combined with the bands of darknessall over the Kindred’s body, subtract two dice from theStamina and soak dice pools of opponents physicallytouched in combat, for as long as the vampire remainsin contact with the victim. This is not cumulativewith other powers in Obtenebration, although targetscan asphyxiate at Stamina 0, as per Shadow Play. Thevampire may make an additional attack without penalty by using the tentacles (for a total of two attacks,not one additional attack per tentacle). Additionally,the vampire can sense his surroundings fully even inpitch darkness.The vampire’s head and extremities sometimes appear to fade away into nothingness, while at othertimes they seem swathed in otherworldly darkness.This, combined with the wriggling tentacles writhingfrom his body, creates an unsettling sight. Mortals, animals, and other creatures not accustomed to this sortof display must make Courage rolls (difficulty 8) or succumb to a panic that amounts to Rötschreck (thoughit is inspired by the darkness rather than fire). ManyKindred cultivate this devilish aspect, and the BlackMetamorphosis adds three dice to the invoking Kindred’s Intimidation dice pools.
	5:Tenebrous Form
	*At this level, the Kindred’s mastery of darkness is soextensive that she may physically become it. Upon activation of this power, the vampire becomes an inky,amoeboid patch of shadow. Vampires in this form arepractically invulnerable and may slither through cracksand crevices. In addition, the shadow-vampire gainsthe ability to see in natural darkness.System: The transformation costs three blood points(which may need to occur over three turns, depending on the vampire’s Generation). The vampire is immune to physical attacks while in the tenebrous form(though she still takes aggravated damage from fire andsunlight), but may not herself physically attack. Shemay, however, envelop and ooze over others, affecting them in the same manner as a Shroud of Night,in addition to using mental Disciplines. Vampires inTenebrous Form may even slither up walls and across ceilings or “drip” darkness upward — they have nomass and are thus unaffected by gravity. Rötschreckdifficulties from fire and sunlight do increase by one forvampires in this form, as the light is even more painfulto their shadowy bodies.Mortals (and others not used to such displays) whowitness the vampire transform into unholy shadow require Courage rolls (difficulty 8) in order to avoid the debilitating terror described under Black Metamorphosis.
	6: The Darkness Within
	*This power allows the Cainite to call forth the darkness contained in her black soul. This enormous, turbulent shadow vomits from the vampire’s mouth, thoughsome vampires are said to cut themselves and let theblackness seep from their veins. The shadow-cloud engulfs a chosen target, burning it with a soul-scarringchill and siphoning its blood away in torrents.System: The player makes a Willpower roll (difficulty 6) and spends a blood point. The resulting shadowenvelops the target and, though it does not physicallyharm the victim, it may strike terror into him. Individuals observing the Darkness Within, whether as targets or onlookers, may suffer from the terror describedunder Black Metamorphosis, unless they are alreadyfamiliar with the Kindred’s power.Individuals touched by The Darkness Within lose onepoint of blood per turn, though targets may resist this effect by succeeding on a Stamina roll (difficulty 6) eachturn the target remains in contact with the cloud.The Cainite invoking The Darkness Within mustdevote all her attention to maintaining the cloud. Ifthe vampire is attacked, the darkness immediately returns to her through whatever orifice it originated. TheCainite can summon the darkness back at any time,gaining a number of blood points equal to one-half thenumber the shadow siphoned from its victims (roundup). Taking blood from another in this fashion is similar to drinking from that vampire, and blood bondsmay result. Additionally, the Darkness Within maytake blood from only one individual per turn, though itmay be in contact with many.
	6: Shadowstep
	*The vampire has such fine control over the darknessthat he may become it briefly and reform himself fromother darkness close by. The vampire may Shadowstepthrough walls, floors, and even mystical barriers. TheCainite simply steps “into” a shadow and re-emerges from another shadow a short distance away (or next tothe barrier, if there is no shadow on the other side).System: The player rolls Dexterity + Occult, and ona successful roll, the character may emerge from another shadow no more than 50 feet (or 15 meters) away.Failing the roll means simply that the character cannotstep through the shadow-realm, while a botch signifies the character has become trapped between shadows (which fiendish Storytellers should have a heydaywith). Pulling another individual through the shadowrequires a Strength + Occult roll, with consequencesfor failure similar to failing by oneself.
	7: Shadow Twin
	*The vampire’s control over darkness has progressedto such a degree that he may bestow upon it a limited degree of sentience. By animating his own shadowor that of another, the Cainite can actually “free” theshadow cast by light. While this power is active, thesubject casts no shadow, as it has left to pursue thevampire’s commands.This power can unnerve mortals and even a few inexperienced vampires. The Kindred wielding Obtenebration commands the individual’s shadow; some vampiresreport having seen mortals literally scared to death, astheir shadows leapt away to taunt or menace them.System: The player spends a blood point and makesa Willpower roll (difficulty 8). If the roll succeeds, theshadow springs to unholy freedom for one hour persuccess (though it disappears at sunrise regardless ofhow many successes the vampire had). The ShadowTwin has Attribute and Ability ratings equal to halfthose of its parent body; they won’t do much talkingor thinking, so Mental and Social Traits don’t mattermuch, though Wits may come into play. Additionally,the Shadow Twin has an Obtenebration score equalto one-half of that of the vampire who animated it(rounded down). Mortals and vampires unused to Obtenebration require a Courage roll upon witnessingthis, as per Shadow Play.The twin may separate itself from the parent andtravel up to 50 feet or 15 meters away, crawlingthrough crevices or sliding up walls. It may attack andbe attacked, though it takes and does only half damage (again, round down). Flame and supernatural attacks (such as vampire fangs, mystical powers, etc.) dofull damage. If the Shadow Twin is killed, its parentloses half her Willpower points and must roll to avoidRötschreck (difficulty 9).
	8: Oubliette
	*By creating a “chamber” of pure darkness, the Cainite may entrap or smother her enemies. No air existsin this shadow-trap, and mortals suffocate within itschilling void. Even vampires have little recourse oncetrapped — they may leave only at their captor’s whim.The Oubliette appears as a dense patch of shadow, unaffected by ambient light around it.System: The vampire spends a blood point, but noroll is necessary to create the Oubliette. To actuallycreate the Oubliette around someone requires a contested Wits + Larceny roll against the target’s Dexterity+ Occult (difficulty 7 for both rolls). Mortals suffocatewithin a number of minutes equal to their Stamina(though the Lasombra may choose to leave their headsexposed or trap a quantity of air inside as well), whilevampires are simply suspended impotently in darknessand may not use Disciplines or take other actions. TheOubliette vanishes instantly when touched by sunlight— which has left more than one vampire exposed to thesun’s unforgiving rays — or when the Kindred choosesto relax it. A vampire may maintain only one Oublietteat a time (which can only contain one target at a time),which leads some Cainite philosophers to argue that itis a prison created from the vampire’s very soul.
	9:Ahriman’s Demesne
	*This power allows the vampire to summon a darkness so oppressive that it extinguishes the light of life— or unlife — of any victim trapped within it. Ahriman’s Demesne creates a 50-foot (or 15-meter) radiusof void that issues from the Cainite’s hand and takesaway the bodies of those it claims when it vanishes.The overwhelming darkness destroys friend and foealike, claiming anyone unfortunate enough to be within its circumference.System: The player spends two points of Willpowerand concentrates for three turns. During this time, theblackness billows out of the character’s hand, growingto fill the area. At the end of the third turn, the playerrolls Manipulation + Occult (difficulty 6). Everyonein the darkness’ area suffers that many health levels ofdamage (aggravated, if the victims are vampires) outright — six successes yield six levels of damage, notsix dice of damage. After Ahriman’s Demesne does itsdamage, it collapses, taking with it the bodies of anywho died when they came in contact with the dreadfulshadow.

--Potence
	*Kindred endowed with Potence possess unnatural strength. This Discipline enables vampire to leapmassive distances, lift tremendous weights, and strikeopponents with brutal force. Even low ranks of thispower can give Kindred physical power beyond mortal bounds. More powerful Kindred can leap so far thatthey appear to be flying, toss cars like soda cans, andpunch through walls like cardboard. While the moresubtle mental Disciplines can be awe-inspiring, thebrutal effectiveness of Potence is formidable in its ownright.The Brujah, Giovanni, Lasombra, and Nosferatu arenaturally gifted with this Discipline, but members ofother Clans often make a point to find someone whocan teach them the awesome power of Potence.System: Each dot that the vampire has in Potenceadds one die to all Strength-related dice rolls. Further,the player can spend one blood point and change hisPotence dice into an equal number of automatic successes to all Strength-related rolls for the turn. In melee and brawling combat, successes from Potence (either rolled or automatic) are applied to the damage rollresults.Potence 6+While flesh and blood have their limits, undead sinews and vitae have a bit more latitude when it comesto feats of strength. Vampires who are close to Caine indescent are sometimes capable of strength-based maneuvers that awe even other vampires. A product ofblood and will as much as of muscle and bone, masteryof Potence gives a vampire the ability to do far morethan just lift progressively heavier objects — if thevampire himself is willing to learn an alternate way.Advanced Potence powers can be purchased in thesame fashion as advanced Celerity or Fortitude powers:A character can choose to learn an alternate power instead of advancing along the Discipline’s normal progression, and can later go back and re-purchase whathe’s missed.
	6: Imprint
	*A vampire with extensive knowledge of Potence cansqueeze very, very hard. As a matter of fact, she cansqueeze (or press, or push) so hard that she can leavean imprint of her fingers or hand in any hard surfaceup to and including solid steel. A use of Imprint can simply serve as a threat, or it can be used, for example,to dig handholds into sheer surfaces for purposes ofclimbing.System: Imprint requires a point of blood to activate.The power remains active for the duration of a scene.The depth of the imprint the vampire creates with Imprint is up to the Storyteller — decisions should takeinto account how much force the vampire can bring tobear, the toughness of the material, and its thickness.If the object the vampire grasps is thin enough, at theStoryteller’s discretion, the vampire might simply beable to push through it (in the case of a wall) or tear itoff (in the case of a spear or pipe).
	7: Earthshock
	*According to some pundits, Potence is merely theart of hitting something very hard. But what do youdo when your target is too far away to hit directly? Theanswer is, if you’re sufficiently talented with the Discipline, to employ Earthshock. On its simplest level,Earthshock is the ability to hit the ground at point A,and subsequently have the force of the blow emergefrom the ground at point B.System: The use of Earthshock requires the expenditure of two blood points, as well as a normal Dexterity+ Brawl roll. The vampire punches or stamps on theground, and, if the attack is a success, the force of theblow emerges from the ground as a geyser of stone andearth directly underneath the target. The attack can bedodged at a +2 difficulty.Earthshock’s range is 10 feet or three meters for every level of Potence the vampire has, up to the limitsof visibility. A failure on the attack roll means thatthe strike goes errant and is liable to explode anywherewithin range; a botch means that the vampire pulverizes the ground beneath him and may well bury himselfin the process.
	8: Flick
	*It is a truism that “the great ones always make it lookeasy.” In the case of Flick, that saying stops being atruism and becomes literal truth. With this power, amaster of Potence can make the slightest gesture — awave, a snap of the fingers, the toss of a ball — andhave it unleash the full, devastating impact of a deadon strike. The attack can come without warning, limiting the target’s ability to dodge or anticipate; this makesFlick one of the most feared applications of Potence.System: Flick costs a point of blood, and requiresa Dexterity + Brawl roll (difficulty 6). The vampire must also make some sort of gesture directing the blow.What the gesture is remains up to the player — anything from a snap of the fingers to a blown kiss hasworked in the past.Flick‘s range is equal to the limit of the Kindred’sperception, and the blow struck does damage equal toa normal punch (including all bonuses).

--Presence
	*Presence is the Discipline of emotional manipulation. Vampires with this power can inspire passionatefervor or unreasoning terror in mortals and Kindredalike. In addition, unlike most Disciplines, some ofPresence’s powers can be used on entire crowds at onetime. Presence can transcend race, religion, gender,class, and (most importantly) supernatural nature. Assuch, this subtle power is one of the most useful Disciplines a vampire can possess.Anyone can resist Presence for one scene by spending a Willpower point and succeeding on a Willpowerroll (difficulty 8), but the affected individual must keepspending points until he is no longer in the presenceof the vampire (or, in the case of Summon, until theeffect wears off). Vampires three or more Generationslower than the wielder need only spend a single Willpower to ignore the Presence for an entire night andneed not roll Willpower to do so.The major drawback of Presence is that it controlsonly the emotions. It causes others to feel a certainway toward the vampire, but does not give her outrightcontrol over them. While people weigh strongly theorders that the vampire declares, their minds are stilltheir own. Suicidal or ridiculous directives don’t soundany more sensible just because the person giving themis unusually fascinating. Still, inspired eloquence orsignificant wealth used in combination with this Discipline can enable the vampire to urge others along adesired course.The Brujah, Followers of Set, Toreador, and VentrueClans are all adept in this Discipline. The Ventrue arearguably the most skilled with its application, however,due to their ability to use Presence and Dominate inefficient combination.
	1:Awe
	*Those near the vampire suddenly desire to be closerto her and become receptive to her point of view. Aweis extremely useful for mass communication. It matters little what is said — the hearts of those affected leantoward the vampire’s opinion. The weak want to agreewith her; even if the strong-willed resist, they soonfind themselves outnumbered. Awe can turn a chancydeliberation into a certain resolution in the vampire’sfavor almost before her opponents know that the tidehas turned.Despite the intensity of this attraction, those so smitten do not lose their sense of self-preservation. Dangerbreaks the spell of fascination, as does leaving the area.Those subject to Awe will remember how they felt inthe vampire’s presence, however. This will influencetheir reactions should they ever encounter her again.System: The player spends a blood point and rollsCharisma + Performance (difficulty 7). The number ofsuccesses rolled determines how many people are affected, as noted on the chart below. If there are morepeople present than the character can influence, Aweaffects those with lower Willpower ratings first. Thepower stays in effect for the remainder of the scene oruntil the character chooses to drop it.
		@1 success		One person
		@2 successes		Two people
		@3 successes		Six people
		@4 successes		20 people
		@5 successes		Everyone in the vampire’s immediatevicinity (an entire auditorium, a mob)
	**Those affected can use Willpower points to overcomethe effect, but must continue spending Willpower every scene for as long as they remain in the same area asthe vampire. As soon as an individual spends a numberof Willpower points equal to the successes rolled, heshakes off the Awe completely and remains unaffectedfor the rest of the night.
	2:Dread Gaze
	*While all Kindred can frighten others by physicallyrevealing their true vampiric natures — baring clawsand fangs, glaring with malevolence, hissing loudly withmalice — this power focuses these elements to insanelyterrifying levels. Dread Gaze engenders unbearable terror in its victim, stupefying him into madness, immobility, or reckless flight. Even the most stalwart individualwill fall back from the vampire’s horrific visage.System: The player rolls Charisma + Intimidation(difficulty equal to the victim’s Wits + Courage). Success indicates the victim is cowed, while failure meansthe target is startled but not terrified by the sight. Threeor more successes means he runs away in abject fear;victims who have nowhere to run claw at the walls,hoping to dig a way out rather than face the vampire.Moreover, each success subtracts one from the target’saction dice pools next turn.The character may attempt Dread Gaze once per turnagainst a single target, though she may also perform itas an extended action, adding her successes in order tosubjugate the target completely. Once the target losesenough dice that he cannot perform any action, he’s soshaken and terrified that he curls up on the ground andweeps. Failure during the extended action means theattempt falters. The character loses all her collectedsuccesses and can start over next turn, while the victimmay act normally again.A botch at any time indicates the target is not at allimpressed — perhaps even finding the vampire’s anticscomical — and remains immune to any further uses ofPresence by the character for the rest of the story.
	3:Entrancement
	*This power bends others’ emotions, making themthe vampire’s willing servants. Due to what these individuals see as true and enduring devotion, they heedthe vampire’s every desire. Since this is done willingly,instead of having their wills sapped, these servants retain their creativity and individuality.While these obedient minions are more personableand spirited than the mind-slaves created by Dominate, they’re also somewhat unpredictable. Further,since Entrancement is of a temporary duration, dealingwith a lapsed servant can be troublesome. A wise Kindred either disposes of those she Entrances after theyserve their usefulness, or binds them more securely by ablood bond (made much easier by the minion’s willingness to serve).System: The player spends a blood point and rollsAppearance + Empathy (difficulty equal to the target’scurrent Willpower points); the number of successesdetermines how long the subject is Entranced, as perthe chart below. (Subjects can still spend Willpower totemporarily resist, like any other Presence power.) TheStoryteller may wish to make the roll instead, since thecharacter is never certain of the strength of her holdon the victim. The vampire may try to keep the subjectunder her thrall, but can do so only after the initialEntrancement wears off. Attempting this power whileEntrancement is already in operation has no effect.
		@-1 success			Subject cannot be entrancedfor the rest of the story.
		@0 success		Subject cannot be entrancedfor the rest of the night.
		@1 success		One hour
		@2 successes		One day
		@3 successes		One week
		@4 successes		One month
		@5 successes		One year
	4:Summon
	*This impressive power enables the vampire to call toherself any person whom she has ever met. This callcan go to anyone, mortal or supernatural, across anydistance within the physical world. The subject of theSummons comes as fast as he is able, possibly withouteven knowing why. He knows intuitively how to findhis Summoner — even if the vampire moves to a newlocation, the subject redirects his own course as soonas he can. After all, he’s coming to the vampire herself,not to some predetermined site.Although this power allows the vampire to call someone across a staggering distance, it is most useful whenused locally. Even if the desired person books the nextavailable flight, getting to Kyoto from Milwaukee canstill take far longer than the vampire needs. Obviously,the individual’s financial resources are a factor; if hedoesn’t have the money to travel quickly, it will takehim a far greater time to get there.The subject thinks mainly of reaching the vampire,but does not neglect his own well-being. This is lessof a consideration if he only has to cross a room, unless he must get through a gang of gun-wielding punksto do so. The individual retains his survival instincts,and while he won’t shirk physical violence to reachthe vampire’s side, he won’t subject himself to suicidalsituations.The Summoning dissipates at dawn. Unless the subject is trained to continue toward the vampire after thefirst call, the immortal must Summon each night untilthe target arrives. Still, as long as the vampire is willing and able, she is assured to greet her desired subjectsome night — as long as nothing happens to him alongthe way, of course.System: The player spends a blood point and rollsCharisma + Subterfuge. The base difficulty is 5; this increases to difficulty 7 if the subject was met only briefly.If the character used Presence successfully on the targetin the past, this difficulty drops to 4, but if the attemptwas unsuccessful, the difficulty rises to 8.The number of successes indicates the subject’s speedand attitude in responding:
		@-1 success			Subject cannot be Summoned bythat vampire for the rest of the story.
		@0 success		Subject cannot be Summoned by thatvampire for the rest of the night.
		@1 success		Subject approaches slowlyand hesitantly.
		@2 successes		Subject approaches reluctantly andis easily thwarted by obstacles.
		@3 successes		Subject approaches withreasonable speed.
		@4 successes		Subject comes with haste,overcoming any obstacles inhis way.
		@5 successes		Subject rushes to the vampire, doinganything to get to her.
	5:Majesty
	*At this stage, the vampire can augment her supernatural mien a thousandfold. The attractive becomeparalyzingly beautiful; the homely become hideouslytwisted. Majesty inspires universal respect, devotion, fear — or all those emotions at once — in thosearound the vampire. The weak scramble to obey herevery whim, and even the most dauntless find it almostimpossible to deny her.People affected find the vampire so formidable thatthey dare not risk her displeasure. Raising their voicesto her is difficult; raising a hand against her is unthinkable. Those few who shake off the vampire’s potentmystique enough to oppose her are shouted down bythe many under her thrall, before the immortal needeven respond.Under Majesty’s influence, hearts break, power trembles, and the bold shake. Wise Kindred use this powerwith caution against mortal and immortal alike. WhileMajesty can cow influential politicians and venerable Primogen, the vampire must be careful that doing so doesn’tcome back to haunt her. After all, a dignitary brought low before others loses his usefulness quickly, while a humiliated Kindred has centuries to plan revenge.System: No roll is required on the part of the vampire, but she must spend a Willpower point. A subjectmust make a Courage roll (difficulty equal to the vampire’s Charisma + Intimidation, to a maximum of 10) ifhe wishes to be rude or simply contrary to the vampire.Success allows the individual to act normally for themoment, although he feels the weight of the vampire’sdispleasure crushing down on him. A subject who failsthe roll aborts his intended action and even goes toabsurd lengths to humble himself before the vampire,no matter who else is watching. The effects of Majestylast for one scene.
	6: Love
	*The blood bond is one of the most powerful tools inan elder’s inventory. However, more and more childerare aware of how to avoid being bound, so alternatives are needed. The Presence power called Love isone such alternative, as it simulates the effects of thebond without any of the messy side effects. While notas sure a method of control as a true blood bond, noras long-lasting, Love is still an extremely potent meansof command.System: The player spends a blood point and rollsCharisma + Subterfuge (difficulty equal to the target’scurrent Willpower points). Success on the roll indicates that the victim feels as attached to the characteras if he were blood bound to her. Each success also reduces the victim’s dice pool by one die for any Socialrolls to be made against the character. A botch makesthe target immune to all of the character’s Presencepowers for the rest of the night. This power lasts forone scene and can be applied to the same victim overmultiple scenes in the same night.
	6: Paralyzing Glance
	*Some elders have honed their mastery of Dread Gazeto such a degree that they are said to be able to paralyze with a look. The power‘s name is something of amisnomer, as victims of this power are not preciselyparalyzed in a physical sense, but rather frozen withsheer terror.System: The character must make eye contact(p. 152) with her intended victim. The player thenrolls Manipulation + Intimidation (difficulty equal tothe target’s current Willpower points). Success rendersthe victim so terrified that he falls into a whimpering,catatonic state, unable to take any actions except curling into a fetal position and gibbering incoherently.The condition lasts for a length of time determined bythe number of successes rolled. If the victim’s life is directly threatened (by assault, impending sunrise, etc.),the poor wretch may attempt to break out of his paralysis with a Courage roll (difficulty equal to the character’s Intimidation + 3). One success ends the paralysis.A botch sends the victim into a continuous state ofRötschreck for the rest of the night.
		@1 success		Three turns
		@2 successes		Five minutes
		@3 successes		Remainder of the scene
		@4 successes		One hour
		@5 successes		Rest of the night
		@6+ successes 		A week (or more, at Storyteller discretion)
	6: Spark of Rage
	*A vampire possessing this power can shorten tempers and bring old grudges and irritations to the boilingpoint with a minimum of effort. Spark of Rage causesdisagreements and fights, and can even send othervampires into frenzy.System: The player spends a blood point and rollsManipulation + Subterfuge (difficulty 8). The number of individuals affected is determined by how manysuccesses are rolled. If this power is used in a crowd,those affected are the people in closest proximity tothe character. A vampire affected by this power mustspend a Willpower point or roll Self-Control/Instinct(difficulty equal to the character’s Manipulation +Subterfuge); failure sends the target into a frenzy. Abotch by the vampire using Spark of Rage sends theinvoking character into immediate frenzy.
		@1 success		Two people
		@2 successes		Four people
		@3 successes		Eight people
		@4 successes		20 people
		@5 successes		Everyone in the character’simmediate vicinity
	7: Cooperation
	*Any elder knows that Kindred are the most difficultbeings in existence to force to work together. Peacefulcoexistence is not a common tenet of vampiric society.With that in mind, this power can be used to nudgethose affected by it into a fragile spirit of camaraderie.Some cynical (or realistic) Ventrue claim that theirClan’s mastery of this Presence effect is the sole reasonthat anything is ever accomplished in Camarilla conclaves. Ventrue who voice this opinion too loudly alsotend to have numerous chances to test just how effective Cooperation is.System: To invoke Cooperation, the player spends ablood point and rolls Charisma + Leadership (difficulty8). The number of individuals affected is determined byhow many successes the player rolls. Cooperation lastsfor the remainder of the scene in which it is invoked,though particularly strong users of Presence may createlonger-lasting feelings of non-aggression (at Storytellerdiscretion) by spending Willpower. While this poweris in effect, all those under its influence are more favorably disposed toward one another and are more willingto extend trust or make cooperative plans.For the most part, players should simply roleplay Cooperation’s effects, but there are some concrete ramifications to the power‘s use. For example, Self-Control/Instinct difficulties to resist frenzy in response to insultsfrom within the target group are decreased by three,and certain Social Flaws may be decreased in impactfor the duration of Cooperation.
		@1 success		Two people
		@2 successes		Four people
		@3 successes		Eight people
		@4 successes		20 people
		@5 successes		Everyone in the character’simmediate vicinity
	8:Ironclad Command
	*Any individual can normally resist the powers ofPresence for a brief time through an effort of will. Someelder Toreador and Ventrue have developed such forceof personality that their powers of Presence cannot beresisted without truly heroic efforts.System: This power is always in effect once it hasbeen learned. A mortal may not spend Willpower to resist the character’s Presence (for purposes of this power,the definition of “mortal” does not include supernaturally active humans such as ghouls or those who possessTrue Faith). A supernatural being must roll Willpower(difficulty of the character’s Willpower + 2; difficultiesover 10 mean that the roll cannot even be attempted)the first time he attempts to spend a Willpower pointto overcome the character’s Presence. For the rest ofthe night, the maximum number of Willpower pointshe can spend to resist the vampire’s Presence powersis equal to the number of successes he rolled. A botchdoubles the character’s Presence dice pools against thehapless victim for the remainder of the night.
	9:Pulse of the City
	*A vampire who has developed her Presence to thisterrifying degree can control the emotional climate ofthe entire region around her, up to the size of a largecity. This power is always in effect on a low level, attuning those who dwell in the area to the Kindred’smood, but it can also be used to project a specific emotion into the minds of every being in the area. Pulseof the City affects residents much more strongly thantourists, and also has a significant impact on those individuals who might be elsewhere at the time but whostill have strong ties to the affected city.System: The character must be present in the city inquestion, and have at least a casual, personal knowledge of its streets and makeup (maps won’t help). Theplayer spends a Willpower point and rolls Charisma +Streetwise (difficulty 9, though specializations or Storyteller fiat may decrease this difficulty if the characteris intimately familiar with a particular city). The number of successes indicates how long mortal residents areaffected by the particular emotion that the characterbroadcasts; visitors with no ties to the area and supernatural beings are affected for a duration one successstep lower. The character can choose to terminate thiseffect at any time before it expires.
		@1 success		One minute
		@2 successes		10 minutes
		@3 successes		One hour
		@4 successes		One day
		@5 successes		One week
	**Pulse of the City can be used by a character in torpor.
	
--Protean
	*Protean allows the Kindred the mystical ability tomanipulate his physical form. Some vampires believethe power stems from a heightened connection to thenatural world, while others consider it to be a magnification of the mark of Caine. Whatever its basis maybe, those that develop this Discipline can grow bestialclaws, take on the forms of bats and wolves, turn themselves into mist, and even meld into the very earth itself.Transformed Kindred can generally use other Disciplines — vampires in wolf form can still read auras andcommunicate with other animals, for example. However, the Storyteller may rule that certain Disciplinesmay not be used in specific situations. The Kindred’sclothes and personal possessions also change when hetransforms (presumably absorbed within his very substance), although armor and the like do not provideany benefit while transformed.Vampires cannot change or transform large objects orother beings; Protean is a personal expression of power.A Kindred who has been staked (thereby trapping hissoul within his body) cannot transform. Some vampires believe that those who have mastered the highestlevels of Protean can deny this limitation, however.The Gangrel Clan is well known for their mastery ofProtean, although other Kindred have learned some ofthis Discipline’s secrets from these bestial Cainites.
	1:Eyes of the Beast
	*The vampire sees perfectly well in pitch darkness,not requiring a light source to notice details in eventhe darkest basement or cave. The vampire’s Beast isevident in his red glowing eyes, a sight sure to disturbmost mortals.System: The character must declare his desire to callforth the Eyes. No roll is necessary, but the change requires a full turn to complete. While manifesting theEyes, the character suffers a +1 difficulty to all Socialrolls with mortals unless he takes steps to shield hiseyes (sunglasses are the simplest solution). (A vampirewithout this power who is immersed in total darknesssuffers blind-fighting penalties as per p. 274.)
	2:Feral Claws
	*The vampire’s nails transform into long, bestial claws.These talons are wickedly sharp, able to rend flesh withease and even carve stone and metal with little trouble. The Beast is prominent in the claws as well, makingthem fearsome weapons against other immortals. It’srumored that some Gangrel have modified this powerto change their vampiric fangs into vicious tusks.System: The claws grow automatically in response tothe character’s desire, and can grow from both handsand feet. The transformation requires the expenditureof a blood point, takes a single turn to complete, andlasts for a scene.The character attacks normally in combat, but theclaws inflict Strength + 1 aggravated damage. Othersupernaturals cannot normally soak this damage, although a power such as Fortitude may be used. Additionally, the difficulties of all climbing rolls are reducedby two.
	3:Earth Meld
	*One of the most prized powers within Protean,Earth Meld enables the vampire to become one withthe earth. The immortal literally sinks into the bareground, transmuting his substance to bond with theearth.Though a vampire can immerse himself fully into theground, he cannot move around within it. Further, itis impossible to meld into earth through another substance. Wood slats, blacktop, even artificial turf blocksEarth Meld’s effectiveness — then again, it’s a relatively simple matter for a vampire at this level of powerto grow claws and rip apart enough of the flooring toexpose the raw soil beneath.By interring himself in the ground, the vampire gainsfull protection from daylight when outdoors. It is alsothe method of choice for those Kindred who wish tosleep away the centuries; these vampires lock themselves in the earth’s embrace, gaining strength andpower as they rest. Superstitious and paranoid Kindredwhisper that thousands of Ancients sleep within theground and will awaken when Gehenna arrives.While so interred, the vampire is in a transitionalstate between flesh and earth. His physical presenceexists between the physical world and the astral plane.As such, the vampire is difficult to sense, even throughsupernatural means. However, a disruption to the soilthat the immortal occupies, or to his presence on theastral realm, returns him immediately to the physicalworld (and to full wakefulness), showering dirt outward as his body displaces the soil.System: No roll is necessary, although the character must spend a blood point. Sinking into the earth is automatic and takes a turn to complete. The characterfalls into a state one step above torpor during this time,sensing his surroundings only distantly. The playermust make a Humanity or Path roll (difficulty 6) forthe character to rouse himself in response to dangerprior to his desired time of emergence.Since the character is in an in-between state, any attempts to locate him (catching his scent, scanning forhis aura, traveling astrally, and so on) are made at +2difficulty. Astral individuals cannot affect the vampiredirectly, instead meeting with a kind of spongy resistance as their hands pass through him. Similarly, digging in the material world encounters incredibly hardpacked earth, virtually as dense as stone.Attempts at violence upon the submerged vampirefrom either side return him to his physical nature, expelling the soil with which he bonded in a blindingspray (all Perception-based rolls are at +2 difficulty forthe turn). The character himself subtracts two fromhis initiative for the first turn after his restoration, dueto momentary disorientation. Once expelled from theearth, the vampire may act normally.
	4:Shape of the Beast
	*This endows the vampire with the legendary abilityto transform into a wolf or bat. A Kindred changedin this way is a particularly imposing representativeof the animal kingdom. Indeed, he is far superior tonormal animals, even ones possessed by Subsume theSpirit. He retains his own psyche and temperament,but can still call upon the abilities of the beast form— increased senses for the wolf and flight for the bat.Gangrel are reputed to change to other animal formsbetter suited to their environment — jackals in Africa,dholes in Asia, and even enormous rats in urban environments — a feat that other Clans learning Proteancannot seem to duplicate.System: The character spends one blood point to assume the desired shape. The transformation requiresthree turns to complete (spending additional bloodpoints reduces the time of transformation by one turnper point spent, to a minimum of one). The vampireremains in his beast form until the next dawn, unlesshe wishes to change back sooner.While in the animal’s shape, the vampire can use anyDiscipline he possesses except Necromancy, Serpentis, Thaumaturgy, or Vicissitude (as well as any othersthe Storyteller deems unavailable). Furthermore, eachform gives the character the abilities of that creature.In wolf form, the vampire’s teeth and claws inflict Strength + 1 aggravated damage, he can run at doublespeed, and the difficulties of all Perception rolls are reduced by two. In bat form, the vampire’s Strength is reduced to 1, but he can fly at speeds of up to 20 miles perhour, difficulties for all hearing-based Perception rollsare reduced by three, and attacks made against him areat +2 difficulty due to his small size.The Storyteller may allow Gangrel to assume a different animal shape, but should establish the naturalabilities it grants the character.
	5:Mist Form
	*This truly unsettling power enables the vampire toturn into mist. His physical shape disperses into a hazycloud, but one still subject entirely to the immortal’swill. He floats at a brisk pace and may slip under doors,through screens, down pipes, and through other tinyopenings. Although strong winds can blow the vampire from his chosen course, even hurricane-force windscannot disperse his mist shape.Some Kindred feel that this power is an expression ofthe vampire’s ultimate control over the material world,while others believe that it is the immortal’s soul mademanifest (damned though it may be).System: No roll is required, although a blood pointmust be spent. The transformation takes three turns tocomplete, although the character may reduce this timeby one turn for each additional blood point spent (toa minimum of one turn). Strong winds may buffet thecharacter, although Disciplines such as Potence maybe used to resist them. Vampires in Mist Form can perceive their surroundings normally, although they cannot use powers that require eye contact.The vampire is immune to all mundane physical attacks while in mist form, although supernatural attacksaffect him normally. Also, the vampire takes one fewerdie of damage from fire and sunlight. The character maynot attack others physically while in this state — thisincludes encountering another vampire in mist form.He may use Disciplines that do not require physicalsubstance, however.
	6: Earth Control
	*An Earth Melded character with this power is nolonger confined to the resting place she selected thenight before. She can pass through the ground as if itwere water, “swimming” through the earth itself. Someelders use this as a means of unobstructed and unobtrusive travel, while others find it a highly effective meansof maneuvering in combat.
	**System: This power is in effect whenever a characteris Earth Melded, with no additional roll or expenditurenecessary. While in the ground, a vampire can propelherself at half of her normal walking speed. She cannotsee, but gains a supernatural awareness of her underground surroundings out to a range of 50 yards or meters. Water, rock, tree roots, and cement all effectivelyblock her progress; she can only move through earthand substances of similar consistency, such as sand orfine gravel. If two or more vampires attempt to interact underground, only direct physical contact is possible. All damage dice pools in this case are halved,and dodge and parry attempts are at -2 difficulty. Ifan underground chase takes place, it is resolved withan extended, contested Strength + Athletics roll (seep. 261).
	6: Flesh of Marble
	*Tales have long spoken of the combat prowess ofGangrel elders and of their inhuman resilience. Poorlyinformed individuals believe the stories of swords shattering and bullets flattening against immortal skinto be exaggerated reports of the effects of Fortitude.Those with more reliable information know that suchtales result from encounters with vampires who havedeveloped Flesh of Marble. The skin of an elder withFlesh of Marble becomes in essence a sort of flexiblestone, although it appears (and feels) no different thannormal skin and muscle.System: The player spends three blood points to activate Flesh of Marble, which goes into effect instantly.The effects of the power last for the remainder of thescene. While the power is functioning, the damage dicepools of all physical attacks made against the characterare halved (round down). That includes assaults madewith fists, claws, swords, firearms, and explosions, butnot fire, sunlight, or supernatural powers (unless theeffect in question is a direct physical attack, such as arock hurled by means of Movement of the Mind). Additionally, while this power is in effect, a character canattempt to parry melee attacks with his bare hands as ifhe were holding some form of weapon.
	7: Restore the Mortal Visage
	*Cainites are of two opinions regarding this power.Those who are politically active, or who associate extensively with mortals, view it as both necessary andacceptable. Those Kindred who embrace their more feral sides, however, see it as a disgusting defiance of thevery nature of vampirism. The schism comes becausethe power allows the elder who possesses it to temporarily return his appearance to what it was before theEmbrace, removing the bestial features he has accumulated over the centuries. Restore the Mortal Visagehas only been displayed by Gangrel; several Nosferatuelders have attempted to develop it, and it is whisperedthat they met spontaneous, grotesque Final Deathswhen they attempted to take their mortal forms.System: The player spends three blood points anda Willpower point and rolls Willpower (difficulty 8).Success restores the character’s appearance to what itwas just before he was first Embraced, erasing all physical or social animalistic features gained from frenzies(see p. 55). The power also affects any of the character‘s affected Traits relating to social interaction, returning them to their original values (for example, lostAppearance dots return, but Humanity points removeddue to frenzy are not). A botched Willpower roll earnsthe character another feature, as per the Gangrel Clanweakness. Once activated, Restore the Mortal Visagelasts for the remainder of the scene.
	7: Shape of the Beast’s Wrath
	*Users of this power are often mistaken for Tzimisceemploying the Vicissitude power Horrid Form. A vampire employing this power shifts into a huge, monstrousform, gaining half her height again and tripling herweight. Her overall shape flows into an unholy amalgamation of her own form and that of the animal shefeels the closest kinship to (wolves, rats, and great catsare the most common manifestations, though ravens,serpents, bats, and stranger beasts have been reported).The vampire’s new shape does bear some vague resemblance to the war-forms of the werecreatures, but thedifference quickly becomes apparent.System: The player spends three blood points, theexpenditure of which triggers the change. The character’s transformation takes three turns (the player mayspend additional blood points to reduce this time at acost of one point per turn of reduction). Once transformed, the character remains in this form until sunriseor until she shifts back voluntarily.The precise Traits of this form are determined whenthe character first learns this power, as is the animalwhose appearance the character takes on. The vampire’s new form adds a total of seven dots to the character’s Physical Attributes. At least one dot must gointo each Physical Attribute, meaning that no morethan five can go into any one (so a character couldhave +5 Strength, +1 Dexterity, and +1 Stamina, butnot +2 Strength and +5 Dexterity). These bonuses are always the same once they are selected; a different allocation requires that the character buy this power asecond time and thus purchase another alternate form.Additionally, the character inflicts Strength + 2 diceof aggravated damage with both bite and claw attackswhen in monstrous form. She also gains an extra Hurthealth level, and doubles her normal running speed.Finally, the character’s perceptions are also heightened. She is assumed to have both the Auspex powerHeightened Senses and the Protean power Eyes of theBeast after transformation, with all of the benefits anddrawbacks of each.This form does carry two additional drawbacks. Thefirst is a lack of communication ability. The character’sSocial Attributes all drop to 1, or to 0 if they alreadywere 1 (except when making Intimidation rolls) whenthe transformation occurs. The second problem thata character in this form encounters is the suddenlyheightened power of her Beast. All difficulties of rollsto resist frenzy are increased by two for the duration ofthe power’s effect, and the player may not spend Willpower points on such rolls.
	7:Spectral Body
	*This powerful variation on Mist Form allows a vampire to take a shape with most of the advantages of thelesser power but fewer of the disadvantages. A vampirewho assumes Spectral Form retains his normal appearance, but becomes completely insubstantial. He walksthrough walls and bullets with equal ease, and can passthrough the floor on which he stands if he chooses to.Although his lungs are no longer solid, the vampire canstill speak, a fact in which some elders of the Daughtersof Cacophony bloodline have expressed great interest.System: The player spends three blood points. Thetransformation takes one turn to complete, and lastsfor the rest of the night unless the character decides toreverse it. When the power takes hold, the characterbecomes completely insubstantial, but remains fullyvisible. Henceforth, he is unaffected by any physicalattacks, and he doubles his dice pool to soak damagefrom fire and sunlight. The vampire may even ignoregravity if he chooses to do so, rising and sinking throughsolid objects if he does not wish to stand on them (although he may move no faster than his normal walking speed while “flying” in this manner). While in thisform, the character may also use any Disciplines thatdo not require physical contact or a physical body. Onthe downside, while in Spectral Form, a vampire canphysically manipulate his environment only throughthe use of powers such as Movement of the Mind.
	8:Purify the Impaled Beast
	*Camarilla records indicate that a disproportionatelysmall number of Gangrel elders were killed by mortalsand Anarchs during the Inquisition and the AnarchRevolt. This power is one of the primary reasons forthe survival of these Kindred. An elder with this Protean power can expel foreign objects from her bodywith great force, even excising stakes that transfix herheart.System: The player spends three blood points androlls Willpower (difficulty 6, or 8 if the vampire is paralyzed by an object impaling her heart). One success issufficient to remove all foreign objects and substancesfrom the character’s body. Dirt, bullets, and even stakesthrough the heart are instantly and violently removed.The larger the object, the farther away it is hurled bythis power. Objects expelled thus are considered tohave an attack dice pool of three for any bystanders,and to have a dice pool of one to four (depending onsize) for damage. If the character wishes to leave an object in his body (such as a prosthetic limb) or partiallyin (expelling a stake from his heart but leaving it sticking out of his breastbone as a ruse), the player must alsospend a Willpower point when activating this power.
	9:Inward Focus
	*This power has no outwardly visible effects whatsoever. Indeed, its very existence is unknown outsidethose Gangrel Methuselahs who have developed it.The internal effects of this razor-sharp honing of Protean, however, are in some ways more dramatic thanany external manifestation. A vampire with this powercan heighten the efficiency of his undead body’s internal workings to levels undreamed of by lesser Kindred,withstanding inconceivable amounts of injury andmoving with blinding speed and shattering strength.System: The player spends four blood points to activate this power and an additional two blood pointsfor every turn past the first that Inward Focus is maintained. There are three effects of this power: First, thecharacter gains a number of extra actions during eachturn equal to his unmodified Dexterity score. Second,the damage of his physical attacks is increased by threedice per dice pool. Finally, all damage inflicted on thecharacter is halved and rounded down after the soakroll is made (so an attack that inflicts five health levelsafter soak is reduced to two health levels).This power may be used in conjunction with otherProtean powers that modify the character‘s combatabilities, such as Shape of the Beast’s Wrath (above). It may also be used in conjunction with Celerity, Fortitude, and Potence, turning a vampire who has mastered this power into a truly terrifying opponent.

--Quietus
	*The Discipline of silent death, Quietus is practicedby those of Clan Assamite. Based on elements ofblood, poison, vitae control, and pestilence, Quietusfocuses on the destruction of a target through a varietyof means. This Discipline doesn’t always cause a quickdeath, but the Assamites rely on its lethality to hidetheir involvement with their victims.
	1:Silence of Death
	*Many Assamites claim never to have heard theirtargets’ death screams. Silence of Death imbues thevampire with a mystical silence that radiates from herbody, muting all noise within a certain vicinity. Nosound occurs inside this zone, though sounds originating outside the area of effect may be heard by anyonein it. Rumors abound of certain skilled Assamite vizierswho have the ability to silence a location rather than acircumference that follows them, but no proof of thishas been forthcoming.System: This power (which costs one blood point toactivate) maintains a 20-foot (6-meter) radius of utterstillness around the Kindred for one hour.
	2:Scorpion’s Touch
	*By changing the properties of her blood, a vampiremay create powerful venom that strips her prey of his resilience. This power is greatly feared by other Kindred,and all manner of hideous tales concerning methods ofdelivery circulate among trembling coteries. Kindredwith Quietus are known to deliver the poison by coating their weapons with it, blighting their opponentswith a touch, or spitting it like a cobra. An apocryphalaccount speaks of a proud Prince who discovered anAssamite plotting her exsanguination and began todiablerize her would-be assassin. Halfway through theact, she learned that she had ingested a dire quantity oftainted blood and was then unable to resist the weakened hashashiyyin’s renewed attack.System: To convert a bit of her blood to poison, theKindred’s player spends at least one blood point androlls Willpower (difficulty 6). If this roll is successful,and the vampire successfully hits (but not necessarilydamages) her opponent, the target loses a number ofStamina points equal to the number of blood points converted into poison — vampires attempting to drinkthe blood of the Kindred with Scorpion’s Touch areautomatically considered to be “successfully hit.”The victim may resist the poison with a Stamina +Fortitude roll (difficulty 6); successes achieved on theresistance roll subtract from the vampire’s successes.The maximum number of blood points a Kindred mayconvert at any one time is equal to her Stamina. Thenumber of successes scored indicates the duration ofthe Stamina loss.
		@1 success		One turn
		@2 successes		One hour
		@3 successes		One day
		@4 successes		One month
		@5 successes		Permanently (though Stamina maybe bought back up with experience)
	**If a mortal’s Stamina falls to zero through use of Scorpion’s Touch, she becomes terminally ill and loses anyimmunity to diseases, her body succumbing to sicknesswithin the year unless she somehow manages to increase her Stamina again. If a Kindred’s Stamina fallsto zero, the vampire enters torpor and remains that wayuntil one of her Stamina points returns. If a Kindred ispermanently reduced to zero Stamina, she may recoverfrom torpor only through mystical means.To afflict someone with the poison, the Cainite musttouch her target’s flesh or hit him with something thatcarries the venom. Many Assamites lubricate theirweapons with the excretion, while others pool the toxin in their hands (or fleck their lips with the poison,for a “kiss of death”) and press it to their opponents.Weapons so envenomed must be of the melee variety— arrows, sling stones, bullets, thrown weapons, andthe like cannot carry enough of the stuff to do damage,or it drips off in flight. Players whose vampires wish tospit at their targets must make a Stamina + Athletics roll (difficulty 6). No more than two blood points’worth of poison may be expectorated, and a Kindredmay spit a distance of 10 feet (3 meters) for each pointof Strength (and Potence) the character possesses.Vampires with Quietus are immune to their own poison, but not the blood-venom of other Kindred withthis power.
	3:Dagon’s Call
	*This terrible power allows a vampire to drown hertarget in his own blood. By concentrating, the Kindredbursts her target’s blood vessels and fills his lungs withvitae that strangles him from within. The blood actually constricts the target’s body from the inside as itfloods through his system; thus, it works even on unbreathing Kindred. Until the target collapses in agonyor death throes, this power has no visible effect, andmany Kindred like it because it leaves no trace of theirpresence.System: The vampire must touch her target priorto using Dagon’s Call. Within an hour thereafter, thevampire may issue the call, though she need not be inthe presence or even in the line of sight of her target.
	**Invoking the power costs one Willpower point.The Kindred’s player makes a contested Stamina rollagainst the target’s Stamina; the difficulty of each rollis equal to the opponent’s permanent Willpower rating. The number of successes the vampire using Dagon’s Call achieves is the amount of lethal damage, inhealth levels, the victim suffers. For an additional pointof Willpower spent in the next turn, the vampire maycontinue using Dagon’s Call by engaging in anothercontested Stamina roll. So long as the Kindred’s playercontinues to spend Willpower, the character may continue rending her opponent from within.
	4:Baal’s Caress
	*The penultimate use of blood as a weapon (short ofdiablerie itself), Baal’s Caress allows the Kindred totransmute her blood into a virulent ichor that destroysany living or undead flesh it touches. In nights of yore,when Assamites led the charges of Saracen legions, theAssassins were often seen licking their blades, slicingopen their tongues and lubricating their weapons withthis foul secretion.Baal’s Caress may be used to augment any bladedweapon; everything from poisoned knives and swordsto tainted fingernails and claws has been reported.System: Baal’s Caress does not increase the damagedone by a given weapon, but that weapon inflicts aggravated damage rather than normal. No roll is necessary to activate this power, but one blood point isconsumed per hit. For example, if a Cainite poisons hisknife and strikes his opponent (even if he inflicts nodamage), one blood point’s worth of lubrication disappears. For this reason, many vampires choose to coat their weapons with a significant quantity of blood. Ifthe vampire misses, no tainted blood is consumed.
	5:Taste of Death
	*A refinement of Baal’s Caress, Taste of Death allowsthe Cainite to spit caustic blood at her target. Theblood coughed forth with this power burns flesh andcorrodes bone; some vampires have been reported tovomit voluminous streams of vitae that reduce theirtargets to heaps of sludge.System: The vampire may spit up to 10 feet (3 meters) for each dot of Strength and Potence he possesses.Hitting the target requires a Stamina + Athletics roll(difficulty 6). Each blood point spewed at the targetinflicts two dice of aggravated damage, and there is nolimit (other than the vampire’s capacity and per-turnexpenditure maximum) to the quantity of blood withwhich a target may be deluged.
	6: Blood Sweat
	*Although vampires do not have functioning sebaceous glands, they are still capable of sweating attimes of extreme stress. This “sweat” is actually a thinsheen of blood on the Cainite’s forehead and palms.Most Kindred see blood sweat as an admission of fearor guilt. The vampire who has mastered Blood Sweat iscapable of inducing these feelings in a subject to a preternatural degree. The victim experiences a torrentialoutpouring of vitae if he harbors the tiniest shred ofremorse for any action he has ever undertaken.System: The character must be within line of sightof the subject and spend three turns concentrating.The player spends a Willpower point and rolls Manipulation + Intimidation (difficulty equal to the target’scurrent Willpower points). The target loses one bloodpoint per success. Mortals sustain injury as if they hadlost blood from being fed upon. The target actually“sweats out” the lost blood in a sudden rush of sanguinary perspiration that soaks his clothes. Large amountsmay even form puddles at his feet. Blood lost throughthis process is considered dead, inert mortal blood, andprovides minimal nutrition (half normal) for Cainitesdesperate enough to lick it up from the floor or wringit out of towels. It provides no sustenance for the individual from whom it emerged.In addition to the blood loss, the victim is overcomeby a sense of remorse and guilt for his past transgressions (if he has a strong conscience) or an overwhelming compulsion to brag (if he is of sufficiently coarsemoral character). The severity of this impulse depends on the number of successes rolled: One success couldcause a slight twinge of conscience, while five successesmay result in the subject breaking down and pouringout a full confession of his crimes. This effect is morestory-oriented than mechanical, and the Storyteller isthe final authority on what the victim feels compelledto confess or boast.Note that this power’s existence is not widely known.Vampires and mortals alike tend to shrink away fromsomeone who begins spontaneously sweating blood,and experiencing such an affliction may panic even thestaunchest individual.
	6: Selective Silence
	*Although Silence of Death is an effective tool forthe battlefield and the court alike, it is indiscriminatein its effects. The assassin who uses it in preparationfor firing a shotgun also silences the radio over whichher comrades might warn her of an oncoming guard.The courtier who suppresses a room full of dissentingvoices is likewise unable to speak her own mind. Selective Silence allows the skilled Cainite to overcomethese limitations by silencing only those individuals orobjects that she wants to silence.When using this power, most individuals exhale athin mist of blood that clings to the selected subjects,gradually evaporating as Selective Silence’s effectsfade. Some vampires also use a similar technique wheninvoking Silence of Death, in which case the mist surrounds them and moves with them.System: The player spends two blood points androlls Stamina + Stealth (difficulty 7). Each success allows for one individual or object that the character cansilence with this use of the power. Each subject mustbe within 20 yards or meters of the character. Objectslarger than a man count as more than one subject: aheavy machine gun counts as two, a car as three, anda small aircraft as five. Objects larger than a private jetor creatures larger than an elephant cannot be silencedthrough the use of this power.Each subject is completely silenced for a number ofminutes equal to the character’s permanent Willpower.Nothing it does generates sound, though the secondaryeffects of its actions will do so normally. For example, agun silenced with this power will not produce an audible explosion when fired, but its bullets still make noiseas they break the sound barrier. A silenced victim canscream all he likes and not make a sound, but may beable to summon help by smashing a window.
	6: Ripples of the Heart
	*According to Assamite lore, this technique originated with a Byzantine scholar who wanted to protecthis herd from the thirst of other Cainites. Ripples ofthe Heart allows a Cainite to leave emotions withinthe bloodstream of any mortal from whom he feeds.Any other vampire who subsequently drinks from thatmortal experiences those emotions as if they were hisown.System: The character drinks at least one bloodpoint from the subject mortal then spends a minute inphysical contact with the subject while concentratingon the emotion he wishes to leave in her blood. Theplayer spends a point of Willpower and rolls Charisma+ Empathy (difficulty 7 under normal circumstances,5 if the subject is currently experiencing the intendedemotion, 9 if he is currently experiencing a strong opposite emotion). The subject’s blood carries the weightof the intended emotion for one lunar month per success rolled. A mortal’s blood can only carry one emotion at a time. Subsequent attempts to use Ripples ofthe Heart on the same individual have no effect untilthe previous application has worn off.Any vampire who drinks from a vessel under the effects of Ripples of the Heart must succeed in a SelfControl/Instinct roll (difficulty of the mortal’s currentWillpower points) as soon as she swallows the firstblood point. If she fails this roll, the vitae-borne emotion immediately overtakes her. The strength of theemotion depends on how many blood points she drinks.One blood point results in a momentary mood swing,two causes a significant shift in demeanor, and threeor more generates a complete change in emotionalstate. Depending on the circumstances and the preciseemotion, the effects of this may be spectacular or catastrophic. A vampire overtaken by romantic passionmay temporarily believe she is in love with the mortal(or any other convenient bystander). One who drinksfrom a hate-infused vessel may rend her prey to shreds,and one who takes a draught of a mortal touched withfear may run away screaming. The vampire remainssubject to the emotion for a number of hours equal tothe mortal’s permanent Willpower, though she is stillsubject to other feelings after the initial rush of sensation.The mortal who is under the effects of Ripples of theHeart is unaware of the power’s effects on him, thoughhe is slightly predisposed toward the emotion in question while the power is in effect. The vampire who used Ripples of the Heart on a mortal is immune to anyeffects from that use.
	6: Purification
	*Although most mortal cultures affix negative connotations to the spilling of blood, most Assamites— indeed, most vampires — have quite the oppositereaction to it. For them, blood is an unlife-affirmingand reinvigorating substance. Purification works onthis principle, using the power of vitae to cleanse andrestore. Rather than purging foreign taints from thebody, Purification allows its wielder to cleanse otherindividuals’ minds and souls of stains, including thoseleft by the mind control of other Kindred. The vampireusing this power expels his own blood through his skinand allows it to soak through his subject, slowly dissipating. As it does so, it carries away spiritual impuritiesand outside influences.System: The character touches the forehead of herintended subject, and both parties spend a minimum offive minutes in deep concentration. The player spendsa number of blood points equal to the subject’s permanent Willpower. The subject rolls Willpower once forevery external supernatural influence (a vampiric Discipline, usually) to which his mind has been subjected.The difficulty equals the level of the power in question+4 (or a difficulty of 7 if the power level is unknown,such as one used by a different kind of supernaturalcreature). A success nullifies that effect.Purification has its limits. It can remove directly intrusive influences such as Dominate-implanted commands, Dementation-generated derangements, or theimperatives caused by elder vampires’ Presence. It cannot dispel influences that are transmitted by blood, including a blood bond or the dispositions imparted byone’s Clan or bloodline, nor can it erase those causedby purely mundane techniques such as persuasion,hypnosis, or brainwashing, or genuine emotional statessuch as love and hate. It can remove mind-alteringblood magic effects, but either the character wielding Purification or the power’s beneficiary must havea level of Thaumaturgy equal to or greater than thatwith which the effect was placed. A character cannotuse Purification on herself.
	7:Baal’s Bloody Talons
	*The toxin generated by Baal’s Caress is not enough tosignificantly harm some truly fearsome foes. This progressive development of that lesser technique allows itsuser to envenom his weapon with a blood-based poisonso potent that it corrodes the very weapon that bears it, eating away at the strongest metal in a minute orless. However, its effects on its victims are spectacularenough to make the loss of even the most treasuredblades worthwhile. This power’s effects are of very limited duration, as the substance it creates will quicklyevaporate away.System: The character coats an edged weapon withher own blood, as per Baal’s Caress. The player spendsone or more blood points and rolls Willpower (difficulty 7). The weapon now does aggravated damage. It alsogains a number of additional damage dice equal to thenumber of successes rolled plus the number of bloodpoints spent. These extra dice fade at a rate of one perturn as the poison dissipates, drips off, and reacts withthe weapon’s material. Once the extra damage diceare all gone, the weapon’s base damage dice begin tofade at the same rate. The weapon breaks if used whenits base damage is reduced to the wielder’s Strength orless. The only weapons that can resist this corrosionare those created with a supernatural power of a levelequal to or greater than the character’s Quietus rating,though even this is subject to the Storyteller’s discretion.Baal’s Bloody Talons is subject to the same limitations as Baal’s Caress, except the limit on the number of successful strikes that do aggravated damage. Aweapon affected by Baal’s Bloody Talons does aggravated damage with every successful attack until it isdestroyed.At the Storyteller’s discretion, the character may usethe venom this power produces for other purposes, suchas burning through a padlock or destroying an incriminating tape. He may not, however, store this poison forlater use — even if a container proves resistant to it,the substance becomes inert within a few minutes ofleaving its creator’s body.
	7:Poison the Well of Life
	*Beyond leaving emotional traces in a subject’s blood,the master of this Quietus power can now taint thatsame vitae, making it into a deadly poison for any otherCainite who drinks from that mortal. Some vampiresuse Poison the Well of Life to guard their own herdsagainst “poachers” or to ward specific vessels againstindiscriminate feeding. Others have been known toemploy it as a subtle trap for other vampires, turningherds against their owners.System: The character touches the mortal he wishesto taint and smears a streak of his own vitae on thevictim’s skin. The player spends three blood points and rolls Stamina + Occult (difficulty 7). For a number of months equal to the number of successes, anyother vampire who drinks that mortal’s blood sustainstwo health levels of aggravated damage for every bloodpoint imbibed. This damage manifests as a combination of acid burns and something akin to toxic shock.While a mortal is poisonous to vampires, his body’salchemical balance is slightly altered toward toxicity.He gains two extra points of Stamina for the purposesof resisting the effects and damage of poisons and acids.However, his bodily excretions, especially his sweat,are slightly more noxious than normal. He suffers aone-die penalty to all Social dice pools if whomeverhe chooses to interact with has a particularly sensitivenose and is close enough to smell him.
	8:Songs of Distant Vitae
	*Blood magic practitioners and individuals skilled atAuspex have long known that vitae can carry residualimpressions of emotion and personality. This powerinvokes those impressions to overwhelm its victimwith “remembered” images and sensations drawn fromthe vessels who held that blood before the vampirefed from them. Particularly strong-willed or hardenedsubjects may shrug off these visions as daydreams, butthose who are less self-possessed can be permanentlychanged by the experience. A side effect of the use ofthis power is the partial destruction of the vitae fromwhich the images are drawn. Some viziers theorize thatthis is the result of motes of the vessels’ consciousnessmaking an effort to escape their usurper.System: The character touches his target and spendsa turn in concentration. The player spends four bloodpoints and rolls Wits + Intimidation in a contestedroll against the victim’s permanent Willpower (difficulty 7). If the target has committed diablerie within anumber of nights equal to the character’s Perception,the attacker gains one automatic success. The resultdepends on the number of net successes the attackerrolls. Note that in all invocations of this power, thesensations that the subject relives are expressly negative and terrifying — for example, he experiences noneof the pleasure that would normally accompany theKiss when he flashes back to such an event.In addition to the effects listed below, the subject ofa successful attack loses a number of blood points equalto the number of successes rolled. This vitae oozes fromhis body in warm red trickles that do no damage but arecertain to terrify onlookers.
		@-1 success			The attacker enters a flashbacksequence in which he relives his lastfeeding from the vessel’s point ofview. If the player rolled three ormore “1”s, the character acquires apermanent derangement related tofeeding.
		@0 success		The target is unharmed and immuneto this power for a number of nightsequal to his Willpower.
		@1 success		The target experiences a brief (10second/3-turn) flashback sequence inwhich he relives his last feeding fromthe vessel’s point of view. During thistime, he is at +2 difficulty to all rolls.
		@2 successes		The target experiences a briefmontage (15 seconds/5 turns) offlashbacks during which his viewpointflashes between various feedings fromthe vessels’ points of view. Duringthis time, he is at +3 difficulty to allrolls. Once the initial rush ofsensation passes, he is unsettled andat +1 difficulty to all rolls until hesucceeds on a Self-Control/Instinctroll (difficulty 8), which he mayattempt once per scene.
		@3 successes		The target experiences a compositememory, assembled by his ownsubconscious, of the terror thatvarious vessels felt while beingstalked and fed upon. He mustsucceed in a Courage roll (difficulty8) or instantly enter Rötschreck. Ifhe succeeds in this roll, he is still at+3 difficulty on all actions for therest of the scene due to thedistraction that his visions impose.
		@4 successes		The target is stunned and completelyunable to act for a number ofturns equal to 8 - his Self-Control/Instinct as he is bombarded by asequence of the most terrifyingmemories of his various vessels. Oncethis initial onslaught subsides, hemust roll Courage (difficulty 9) orenter Rötschreck. If he fails this roll,he must roll Self-Control/ Instinct (difficulty 8) or gain theSanguinary Animism derangement.
		@5 successes		The target is thrown into anightmarish reenactment of thegreatest fears of every individualupon whom he has ever fed. He mustmake a successful Self-Control/Instinct roll (difficulty 9) or fall intotorpor for (10 - the target’s Stamina)nights, at the end of which he loseshalf his permanent Willpower andgains the derangement SanguinaryAnimism. If he succeeds on theSelf-Control/Instinct roll, he entersRötschreck for the rest of the night,during which time his greatest fear isof his own image. At the end of thenight, he must succeed at aWillpower roll (difficulty 9) or lose apermanent Willpower point and gainthe derangement SanguinaryAnimism.
	9:Condemn the Sins ofthe Father
	*Although the Second City’s judges recognized tha theritage does not equal guilt, they also encounteredmany situations in which a vampire’s entire brood hadcommitted the same crime. In such cases, the judgesoften decreed the same punishment for all transgressors. This technique, which modern viziers believe tohave originated at that time, allows its wielder to administer such judgments. Through Condemn the Sinsof the Father, a Cainite can apply lesser Quietus powers to an entire lineage.System: After successfully using any lesser Quietuspower on another vampire, the player spends a permanent Willpower point and 10 blood points and rollsStamina + Occult. The difficulty of this roll is equalto four plus the number of Generations of the originaltarget’s descendants that the player wants to affect, upto a maximum difficulty of 10. If the roll succeeds, every descendant of the original target within the specified range of Generations suffers the same effects thatthe original target experienced, resisting with his ownrelevant Traits. The player may exempt a number ofpotential subjects from this effect equal to twice thecharacter’s Wits, but the character must know theirfaces or have tasted their vitae.

--Serpentis
	*Serpentis is believed to be the legacy of Set himself, agift to his children. The Followers of Set are very careful to guard this Discipline’s secrets, only teaching theart to those who they deem worthy. Most vampires fearthe Setites because of the powers of Serpentis and itsconnection to snakes and reptiles; this Discipline canevoke a primordial fear in others, particularly thosewho recall the tale of Eden.
	1:The Eyes of the Serpent
	*This power grants the vampire the legendary hypnotic gaze of the serpent. The Kindred’s eyes becomegold with large black irises, and mortals in the character’s vicinity find themselves strangely attracted tohim. A mortal who meets the vampire’s beguiling gazeis immobilized. Until the character takes his eyes offhis victim, the person is frozen in place.System: No roll is required, but this power can beavoided if the mortal takes care not to look into thevampire’s eyes. Vampires and other supernatural creatures can also be affected by this power if the Cainite’splayer succeeds on a Willpower roll (difficulty 9). If attacked or otherwise harmed, supernatural creatures canspend a point of Willpower to break the spell.Note: This is different than normal eye contact detailed on p. 152. The target must be able to see thevampire’s eyes for Eyes of the Serpent to work.
	2:The Tongue of the Asp
	*The vampire may lengthen her tongue at will, splitting it into a fork like that of a serpent. The tonguemay reach 18 inches or half a meter, and makes a terrifyingly effective weapon in close combat.System: The lash of the tongue’s razor fork causes aggravated wounds (difficulty 6, Strength damage). If theKindred wounds her enemy, she may drink blood fromthe target on the next turn as though she had sunk herfangs into the victim’s neck. Horrifying though it is, thetongue’s caress is very like the Kiss, and strikes mortalvictims helpless with fear and ecstasy. Additionally,the tongue is highly sensitive to vibrations, enablingthe vampire to function effectively in the darkness theClan prefers. By flicking his tongue in and out of hismouth, the vampire can halve any penalties relating todarkness (p. 274).
	3:The Skin of the Adder
	*By calling upon her Blood, the vampire may transform her skin into a mottled, scaly hide. A vampire inthis form becomes more supple and flexible.System: The vampire spends one blood point andone Willpower point. Her skin becomes scaly andmottled; this, combined with the character’s increasedflexibility, reduces soak difficulties to 5. The vampiremay use her Stamina to soak aggravated damage fromclaws and fangs, but not from fire, sunlight, or other supernatural energies. The vampire’s mouth widens andfangs lengthen, enabling her bite to inflict an extra dieof damage. Finally, the vampire may slip through anyopening wide enough to fit her head through.The vampire’s Appearance drops to 1, and she is obviously inhuman if observed with any degree of care,though casual passersby might not notice, if the vampire is in darkness or wearing heavy clothing.
	4:The Form of the Cobra
	*The Cainite may change his form into that of a hugeblack cobra. The serpent weighs as much as the vampire’s human form, stretches over 10 feet or three meters long, and is about 20 inches (50 cm) around. The Form of the Cobra grants several advantages, includinga venomous bite, the ability to slither through smallspaces, and a greatly enhanced sense of smell. Thecharacter may use any Disciplines while in this formsave those that require hands (such as Feral Claws).System: The vampire spends one blood point; thechange is automatic, but takes three turns. Clothingand small personal possessions transform with the vampire. The vampire remains in serpent form until thenext dawn, unless he desires to change back sooner.The Storyteller may allow the Setite bonus dice on allPerception rolls related to smell, but the difficulties forall hearing rolls are increased by two. The cobra’s biteinflicts damage equal to the vampire’s, but the vampiredoes not need to grapple his victim; furthermore, thepoison delivered is fatal to mortals.
	5:The Heart of Darkness
	*A Kindred with mastery of Serpentis may pull herheart from her body. She can even use this ability onother Cainites, although this requires several hours ofgruesome surgery. This power can only be invoked during a new moon. If performed under any other moon,the rite fails. Upon removing her heart, the vampireplaces it in a small clay urn, and then carefully hides orburies the urn. While her heart is hidden, she cannotbe staked by any wood that pierces her breast. Moreover, because the heart is the seat of emotion, the difficulties of all her rolls to resist frenzy are two lowerwhile this power is in effect.Cainites are careful to keep their hearts safe fromdanger. If someone seizes her heart, the vampire iscompletely at that person’s mercy. The heart can bedestroyed only by casting it into a fire or exposing it tosunlight. If this happens, the Kindred dies where shestands, boiling away into a blistering heap of ash andblackened bone. Plunging a wooden stake into an exposed heart drives the vampire into instant torpor.A vampire may carry her heart with her, or haveseveral false hearts buried in different places. A smartKindred often avoids her heart’s hiding place, to deterdiscovery. Those wise in Setite lore whisper that thecorrupt elders of the Clan often hold their underlings’hearts as yet another method of control.System: This power requires no roll. Those who witness a vampire pull his heart from his breast (or cutthe heart from another vampire) must make Couragerolls. Failure indicates anything from strong uneasinessto complete revulsion, possibly even Rötschreck.
	6: Cobra Fangs
	*A character using Form of the Cobra gains a venomous bite along with his serpentine form. Unfortunately,huge black cobras tend to make people run away as fastas they can. This Serpentis power enables a vampireto gain the deadly bite without the full-body transformation, making it more useful for taking victims bysurprise. The police do ask questions when someonedies from a cobra bite under unlikely circumstances, soCobra Fangs still requires some discretion in its use.System: The Kindred expends one blood point, andin one turn his fangs become hollow, more slender andvenomous. The vampire injects venom when he bites.He must still grapple with the victim to deliver a biteattack, and the bite does the usual amount of damage;the venom, however, kills mortals within one minute.Bitten vampires or other supernaturally resilient creatures suffer (10 – victim’s Stamina and Fortitude) levelsof aggravated damage over the course of five minutes.
	7: Divine Image
	*Many of the low-Generation Setite elders no longer need the illusions of Obfuscate to appear as a god.Through this Serpentis power, a vampire can physically metamorphose into the form of a god. Male Kindred generally take the form of Set himself: a muscular manwith the head of the “Typhonic Beast,” an animal witha long, narrow snout and upstanding, square-toppedears. Less often, they take the form of the crocodileheaded god Sobek, whom the Egyptians often linkedto Set, or the wolf-headed war-god Wepwawet, oftenidentified with Set’s son Anubis. Female vampires generally assume the form of the cobra-headed goddessRenenet, wife of Sobek, or the hippopotamus-goddessTaweret, sometimes considered a consort of Set. Bothwere goddesses of pregnancy and childbirth. Setitedoctrine labels all four deities as Set’s eldest childer.While assuming the Divine Image, the vampire becomes stronger, tougher, and more impressive. Moreimportantly, perhaps, the vampire’s will becomes morepowerful as he identifies with a divine forebear.System: The character expends three blood pointsand transforms into the Divine Image in one turn. Inthe Divine Image, the vampire gains two dots each ofStrength and Stamina and a dot each of Charisma andManipulation, but her Appearance drops to 1. Theseenhancements can push the vampire over his generational limit. The character also gains two full dots ofWillpower (to a maximum of 10). The Cainite can stayin the Divine Image for a full scene.A vampire has only one Divine Image form (unlessthe player buys this power twice). The character doesnot know what Divine Image he will manifest until heinvokes the power the first time, although the playercan freely choose the preferred form.
	8: Heart Thief
	*The Serpentis power Heart of Darkness normallytakes hours to perform upon other vampires, and onlyworks at the dark of the moon. Some elders, however,can pull the heart from another vampire’s chest witha quick snatch. This does not destroy the victim, unless the attacker then destroys the stolen heart. HeartThief is not an easy power to use despite its speed, butfew Discipline effects can place one vampire in another’s power so suddenly and completely.System: The character must expend one Willpowerpoint. Removing the heart of a reluctant vampire is adifficult feat, comparable to staking: the attacker mustgarner at least three successes on a Dexterity + Brawlattack (difficulty 9). The victim may use Fortitude to“soak” the attacker’s successes, but mundane Staminahas no effect against this magical attack.A vampire who loses his heart this way takes oneunsoakable level of aggravated damage, and receives all the benefits and drawbacks of the Heart of Darknesspower. Resisting frenzy becomes easier (-2 difficulty)and he cannot be staked by wood that impales hisbreast. On the other hand, thrusting a stake throughthe removed heart will instantly force the vampire intotorpor and exposing the heart to fire or sunlight willbum the vampire to ash; even biting into the heart willcause aggravated wounds to the vampire in question.
	9: Shadow of Apep
	*Only Set and Set’s own childer can perform this terrifying power. These ancient monsters can take the formof Set’s defeated enemy, Apep. The vampire becomesa giant serpent of fluid, glittering Darkness — not mereshadow, but anti-light, like the black force commandedby Obtenebration. In this form, physical force cannotharm the vampire: not claws or fangs, not bullets, notexplosions, nothing but fire, sunlight, or mystical powers. Physical barriers cannot easily stop the vampire,whose shadowy form can seep through even the tiniestcrack. The vampire, however, can still exert physicaland supernatural force quite freely.System: Taking the form of Apep costs a Willpowerpoint. The transformation takes three turns to complete; once the vampire has transformed, her body remains changed for one scene. In this form, the vampiretakes no damage from any physical attack: fists, weapons, or falling buildings pass through the vampire as ifshe were a shadow. Fire and sunlight inflict the normal aggravated damage, however, and mystical powers (such as Thaumaturgy) still affect the transformedvampire. The vampire’s new body gains three dots ineach Physical Attribute. Ignore generational limits forthis purpose. The transformed vampire can use herStrength to make normal close combat attacks andcan bite for Strength + 2 dice of damage. The vampirecan also employ any Discipline that does not requirehands.

--Vicissitude
	*Vicissitude is the signature power of the Tzimisce,and is rarely shared outside the Clan (though it isknown to some other Cainites of the Sabbat). Similarto Protean in some ways, Vicissitude allows vampiresto shape and sculpt flesh and bone. When a Kindreduses Vicissitude to alter mortals, ghouls, and vampiresof higher Generation, the effects of the power are permanent; vampires of equal or lower Generation canchoose to heal the effects of Vicissitude as though theywere aggravated wounds. A wielder of Vicissitude canalways reshape her own flesh.The wielder must establish skin-to-skin contact andmust often manually sculpt the desired result for thesepowers to take effect. This also applies to the use of thepower on oneself. Tzimisce skilled in Vicissitude areoften inhumanly beautiful; those less skilled are simplyinhuman.There are rumors that Vicissitude is a disease ratherthan a “normal” Discipline, but only the Fiends knowfor sure, and they aren’t talking.Note: Nosferatu always “heal” Vicissitude alterations, at least the ones that make them better-looking.The ancient curse of the Clan may not be circumvented through Vicissitude. The same applies to physicaldeformities from the Gangrel Clan weakness.
	1:Malleable Visage
	*A vampire with this power may alter her own bodilyparameters: height, build, voice, facial features, andskin tone, among other things. Such changes are cosmetic and minor in scope — no more than a foot (30cm) of height gained or lost, for example. She mustphysically mold the alteration, literally shaping herflesh into the desired result.System: The player must spend a blood point foreach body part to be changed, then roll Intelligence +Medicine (difficulty 6). To duplicate another person orvoice requires a Perception + Medicine roll (difficulty8), and five successes are required for a flawless copy;fewer successes leave minute (or not-so-minute) flaws.Increasing one’s Appearance Trait has a difficulty of 9,and the vampire must spend an additional blood pointfor each dot of Appearance increased beyond their natural total. A botch permanently reduces the Attributeby one.
	2:Fleshcraft
	*This power is similar to Malleable Visage, above, butallows the vampire to perform drastic, grotesque alterations on other creatures. Tzimisc often use this powerto transform their servitors into monstrous guards, thebetter to frighten foes. Only flesh (skin, muscle, fat,and cartilage, but not bone) may be transformed.System: After spending a blood point, the vampire must grapple the intended victim. The player ofthe Flescrafting vampire makes a successful Dexterity + Medicine roll (difficulty variable: 5 for a crudeyank-and-tuck, up to 9 for precise transformations). Avampire who wishes to increase another’s AppearanceTrait does so as described under Malleable Visage; reducing the Attribute is considerably easier (difficulty5), though truly inspired disfigurement may dictate ahigher difficulty. In either case, each success increasesor reduces the Attribute by one.A vampire may use this power to move clumps ofskin, fat, and muscle tissue, thus providing additionalpadding where needed. For each success scored on aDexterity + Medicine roll (difficulty 8), the vampiremay increase the subject’s soak dice pool by one, at theexpense of either a point of Strength or a health level(vampire’s choice).
	3:Bonecraft
	*This terrible power allows a vampire to manipulatebone in the same manner that flesh is shaped. In conjunction with Fleshcraft, above, this power enables aVicissitude practitioner to deform a victim (or herself)beyond recognition. This power should be used in conjunction with the flesh-shaping arts, unless the vampire wants to inflict injury on the victim (see below). System: The vampire’s player must spend a bloodpoint and make a Strength + Medicine roll (difficultiesas above). Bonecraft may be used without the fleshshaping arts, as an offensive weapon. Each successscored on the Strength + Medicine roll (difficulty 7)inflicts one health level of lethal damage on the victim, as his bones rip, puncture, and slice their way outof his skin.The vampire may utilize this power (on herself orothers) to form spikes or talons of bone, either on theknuckles as an offensive weapon or all over the bodyas defensive “quills.” If bone spikes are used, the vampire or victim takes one health level of lethal damage(the vampire’s comes from having the very sharp bonepierce through his skin — this weaponry doesn’t comecheaply). In the case of quills, the subject takes a number of health levels equal to five minus the number ofsuccesses (a botch kills the subject or sends the vampireinto torpor). These health levels may be healed normally. Knuckle spikes inflict Strength +1 lethal damage. Defensive quills inflict a hand-to-hand attacker’sStrength in lethal damage unless the attacker scoresthree or more successes on the attack roll (in whichcase the attacker takes no damage); the defender stilltakes damage normally. Quills also enable the vampireor altered subject to add two to all damage inflicted viaholds, clinches, or tackles.A vampire who scores five or more successes on theStrength + Medicine roll may cause a rival vampire’srib cage to curve inward and pierce the heart. Whilethis does not send a vampire into torpor, it does causethe affected vampire to lose half his blood points, asthe seat of his vitae ruptures in a shower of gore.
	4:Horrid Form
	*Kindred use this power to become hideous and deadly monsters. The vampire’s stature increases to a fulleight feet (two and a half meters), the skin becomes asickly greenish-gray or grayish-black chitin, the armsbecome apelike and ropy with ragged black nails, andthe face warps into something out of a nightmare. Arow of spines sprouts from the vertebrae, and the external carapace exudes a foul-smelling grease.System: The Horrid Form costs two blood points toawaken. All Physical Attributes increase by three, butall Social Attributes drop to zero, except when dealingwith others also in Horrid Form. However, a vampirein Horrid Form who is trying to intimidate someonemay substitute Strength for a Social Attribute. Damage inflicted in brawling combat increases by one due to the jagged ridges and bony knobs creasing the creature’s hands.
	5:Bloodform
	*A vampire with this power can physically transformall or part of her body into sentient vitae. This bloodis in all respects identical to the vampire’s normal vitae; she can use it to nourish herself or others, createghouls, or establish blood bonds. If all this blood is imbibed or otherwise destroyed, the vampire meets FinalDeath.System: The vampire may transform all or part ofherself as she deems fit. Each leg can turn into twoblood points worth of vitae, as can the torso; each arm,the head, and the abdomen convert to one blood pointeach. The blood can be reconverted to the body part,provided it is in contact with the vampire. If the bloodhas been utilized or destroyed, the vampire must spenda number of blood points equal to what was originallycreated to regrow the missing body part.A vampire entirely in this form may not be staked,cut, bludgeoned, or pierced, but can be burned or exposed to the sun. The vampire may ooze along, drip upwalls, and flow through the narrowest cracks, as thoughshe were in Tenebrous Form (p. 190).Mental Disciplines may be used, provided no eyecontact or vocal utterance is necessary, although thevampire can perceive her surroundings just fine (butthe perceptions are always centered on the largest poolof blood). If a vampire in this form “washes” over amortal or animal, that mortal must make a Courageroll (difficulty 8) or fly into a panic.
	6: Chiropteran Marauder
	*Similar to Horrid Form, the Chiropteran Marauderis a terrifying, bipedal bat, bearing a wickedly fangedmaw and veined, leathery wings. This power confers allof the benefits of the Horrid Form, in addition to a fewothers. The mere sight of the marauder is enough tomake mortals or weak-willed vampires flee in horror.System: The vampire gains all the effects of the Horrid Form. Further, the Marauder’s fluted wings allowflight at 25 mph (40 kph), during which the vampiremay carry, but not manipulate, objects no larger thanit can hold in its hands. If the player chooses to, shemay make a Strength + Medicine roll (difficulty 6) toextend bony claws at the ends of the vampire’s wings.These claws inflict Strength +2 aggravated damage.Also, the vampire subtracts two from all hearing-basedPerception rolls (though he adds one to vision- based Wits and Perception rolls). Assuming the mantle ofthe Chiropteran Marauder costs three blood points.
	6: Blood of Acid
	*At this level of mastery, the vampire has convertedhis blood to a viscous acid. Any blood he consumeslikewise becomes acid, which is corrosive enough toburn human (and vampiric flesh) as well as wood. Thiseffect is particularly potent when the vampire assumesthe Bloodform. One of the side effects of this poweris the complete inability to create new vampires andghouls, or give blood to another vampire — the acidwould corrode them as they drank it. The obvious benefit, however, is that would-be diablerists are likewiseunable to devour the Cainite’s blood.System: Each acidified blood point that comes incontact with something other than the vampire himself does five dice worth of aggravated damage. If thevampire is injured in combat, his blood may spatter onan opponent — foes must make Dexterity + Athleticsrolls to avoid the blood, which must be accomplished bysplitting their dice pools. (Unless an opponent knowsthe vampire has this power, she’s unlikely to split herdice pool on her first attack, which causes many Tzimisce to cackle with glee.)
	7: Cocoon
	*The Cainite can form an opaque cocoon from bloodand other fluids excreted from her body. The cocoonhardens after a few moments, turning into a tough,white shell. This cocoon provides considerable protection to the vampire, even shielding her from sunlightand, to a limited degree, fire.System: A vampire may only cocoon herself, and theprocess takes 10 minutes. Additionally, creating a cocoon costs three blood points. The cocoon offers complete protection from sunlight, and provides a numberof dice of soak equal to twice the vampire’s unmodifiedStamina against all damage, aggravated or otherwise. It lasts as long as the Cainite wishes, and she may dissolve it at her whim, emerging from a pulpy, bloodypaste. A vampire contained within a cocoon may stilluse mental Disciplines that do not require eye contactor other conditions to be met.
	8: Breath of the Dragon
	*The vampire becomes like one of the terrible draculsof the Old World, able to exhale a deadly gout of flame.This flame does not hurt the vampire himself, thoughhe may become trapped in flames if it engulfs flammable objects.System: The flaming cloud affects a six-foot area, doing two dice of aggravated damage to anyone in theflames’ circumference. This fire may cause combustibleitems to ignite, and it may ignite victims who suffer firedamage as per the fire rules on page 297.
	9:Earth’s Vast Haven
	*This power, developed in the nights when the Tzimisce were the terrible masters of Eastern Europe,allows the vampire to sink into and disperse himselfthrough the ground. Unlike the Protean power of EarthMeld, however, the vampire actually dissolves his bodyinto the ground; nothing short of a wide-area explosion can affect him, and he may not be dug up bodily.In addition, from sunset to sunrise, the vampire maysee and hear everything happening in his environmentthrough his mystical connection to the land. The merefact that this power exists terrifies many Tzimisce, whoare secretly unsure of whether or not the diablerie oftheir Antediluvian was successful.System: This power costs six blood points to activate, and it lasts as long as the vampire wishes to remain contained within the soil. As per the Cocoon,the vampire may use mental Disciplines that do notrequire physical solvency or eye contact. He may communicate mentally with anyone who wanders into thearea under which he rests.

--Bardo
	*This Discipline has been handed down since Osirishimself first discovered this path. It involves attainment of a constant state of mystical consciousness, onlyachieved by the rigid, ascetic unlife of the Children.This Discipline is not the same state as Golconda. Golconda is a realization and acceptance of the way thingsare, while the Children’s Disciplines are based on denial. They deny the Beast within them by intensely concentrating on their Humanity and their state of death.If a Child was to give up his meditations and discipline,he would be assailed by his Beast. The Child must maintain Humanity equal to theirhighest level of ability, or else lose that ability. Forexample, a Child must have a Humanity of 9 to gainthe ninth level of attainment. If the Child’s Humanityever drops below the required level, then the ability ofthat level is lost and must be bought all over again withexperience points. The Child can counteract this withRestore Humanitas (below).A Child of Osiris cannot follow any type of moralcode other than Humanity.
	1:Restore Humanitas
	*The first thing that the Children of Osiris are taughtis that Humanity does not have to be an inexorableslide into depravity. Instead, it is more akin to a climbup an extremely steep hill. The vampire is going to losesome ground, but with perseverance and strength, hecan regain it. System: When the vampire loses a dot of Humanity,he can attempt to regain it without spending experience points by using this power. The Child must usethis power within a week of losing the Humanity, andmust not have lost any more Humanity since the initialloss (that is, if the character falls from Humanity 8 toHumanity 7, and then falls to Humanity 6 before usingthis power, Restore Humanitas can only be used to recover Humanity 7). The character meditates for several hours, and spends all of the blood points currently inhis body. The player then rolls Conscience (difficultyequal to the level of Humanity being regained). If theroll succeeds, the character regains the dot of Humanity and (if applicable) the dot of Conscience lost toa botched degeneration roll. If the character gained aderangement, it fades within a week of using RestoreHumanitas.
	2:Banishing Sign of Thoth
	*The character gestures, turning aside any supernatural effect aimed at her. The source of the effect does notmatter. She can thwart, or at least blunt, the strengthof any mystical attack. This sign was supposedly taughtto Osiris by Thoth, the Egyptian god of wisdom andmagic. What Thoth actually was — vampire, mortal,or spellcaster — is lost to time.System: The player spends a blood point and rollsDexterity + Occult (difficulty 7). This power can beused to “dodge” any incoming attack of a mystical nature, including any Disciplines that target the character (whether or not they actually inflict damage). Any successes the player rolls are subtracted from the successes on the attacker’s roll. The sign does not serveto turn aside magically enhanced physical attacks; apunch from a vampire with the Potence Discipline stillhas the full effect.
	3:Gift of Apis
	*All vampires must consume blood, no matter howgood their intentions. While this basic fact of undeathcannot be circumvented, the Children of Osiris can atleast avoid drinking human blood.System: Animal blood is just as nourishing to thecharacter as human blood. An animal is considered tohave a blood pool equal to the number of health levels it has, rather than the lesser value usually assignedto represent the creature’s less-than-filling fluids (seep. 270 for more on drinking from animals). This abilityis always active.
	4:Pillar of Osiris
	*In the center of every temple is a Pillar of Osiris, aplace of meditation and power in which the Children’smagic is greatly increased. At this level of Bardo, thecharacter learns to create such a Pillar, meaning thathe can create his own temple.System: Creating the Pillar of Osiris requires anight-long ritual, with the difficulty determined by thelocation. The more remote and free from violence thelocation is, the lower the difficulty. A cave far fromhuman populations that has never seen violence mightbe difficulty 5, which the site of a grisly murder-suicidein a downtown area would be difficulty 9. The playerspends a Willpower point and rolls Willpower. Successcreates the Pillar, which does not require a physical pillar — the Pillar of Osiris is conceptual, not literal Once the Pillar is created, any vampire with at leastone dot of Bardo receives a -3 to the difficulties of anyDiscipline or other mystical activity (including bloodmagic) performed at the Pillar. However, this requiresregular trips to the Pillar. Once the vampire has created a Pillar, he must visit it at least once a month, orit ceases to function. In addition, for every week heis away from a Pillar (not necessarily the one he created), the difficulties of all rolls to avoid frenzy increaseby one. The Beast, long denied by the Child’s asceticpractices, grows in strength while away from the Pillar, and eventually pushes the vampire to frenzy and(likely) Humanity loss. The Children of Osiris, for thisand other reasons, do not leave their temples for long.
	5:Paradox
	*The Child utters a phrase or a riddle that lays barethe truth of the universe to a listener. That truth — theperspective of that one listener’s importance weighedagainst the whole of creation — is enough to immobilize the target for short while. Although this experience would seem to be disheartening, after the factthe targets are loath to harm the Child. Whether that’sbecause of a newfound appreciation for one’s place inthe world, or out of fear that the vampire will revealthe paradox again, no one really knows.System: The vampire speaks the phrase, and theplayer spends a point of Willpower and rolls Manipulation + Occult (difficulty equal to the listener’s currentWillpower). If multiple listeners are present, the playerrolls against the highest difficulty. If the roll is successful, the listener(s) is immobilized for the scene as hecontemplates what he has heard. Striking the victimsnaps him out of it. At the end of the scene, the paradox is gone, and the target can’t ever quite explain it.He does, however, suffer a permanent +1 difficulty toharm or act against the Child of Osiris.
	6: Boon of Anubis
	*The vampire can protect a mortal from Embrace,leaving instructions for Anubis, the judge of the dead,not to take this particular mortal to his scales. If themortal is Embraced while under the power of this Discipline, she simply sleeps for a full night and day, andawakens aching and sick, but unharmed.In order to enact this power, the Child of Osiris mustkiss the mortal, usually on the forehead.System: The vampire spends a point of Willpowerand rolls Humanity. If the roll succeeds, the target isimmune to the Embrace for a number of months equalto the successes rolled. The player can spend a dot ofWillpower to make the effect permanent. Note thatthis Discipline does not protect against any other formof death than the Embrace. If a vampire drains the unfortunate victim dry and then shoots her in the head,she dies just the same. However, the difficulty to avoiddegeneration when killing or harming someone underprotection of this power is increased by three.
	7: Bring Forth the Dawn
	*This power does not actually cause the sun to rise, butrather triggers the daysleep in Kindred. The Child simply gestures, and the target’s Beast responds as thoughthe sun had just risen outside. The Child can then beat a hasty retreat — or stake and behead the vampire nowlying helpless before him.System: The player spends a blood point for eachvampire to be affected and rolls Manipulation + Occult in a contested roll against each target’s Humanityor Path (both rolls at difficulty 7). If the target wins,the power fails. If the Child wins, however, all affectedvampires fall asleep for a number of hours equal to theChild’s net successes. Followers of Set and other bloodlines that share their weakness suffer a -2 to their dicepool for this roll. Any Disciplines or Thaumaturgy rituals which protect the Kindred during their sleep alsowork in defending against this level of Bardo.
	8: Mummification
	*The Children of Osiris have an uneasy relationshipwith destroying other vampires. They would prefer notto do so, but some Kindred are too evil to be allowedto exist. For the vampires that straddle the line — thatare wicked, but retain a spark of Humanity — the Children sometimes use Mummification.This long ritual allows a vampire to be put into torpor for as long as the Child wishes. The target can attempt to struggle free, but only once per century. Oncethe vampire is mummified, the Children usually sealher up in a deep tomb, where (hopefully) she will remain undisturbed.System: The target must be immobilized, rituallybound in strips of fabric, and prepared with incenseand special herbs. The player then rolls Willpower in acontested action against the target’s Willpower (bothdifficulty 8). If the Child wins, the target enters torpor. If the victim wins, he remains awake and the ritualcannot be completed for another night (meaning thatresistance is usually temporary). The target can also attempt to shake the spell free once per century, with aWillpower roll (difficulty 9).Ghouls can also be mummified, but they get nochance to escape.
	9: Ra’s Blessing
	*This ritual is difficult, but allows the vampire to accomplish the impossible — walking in sunlight, fullyexperiencing the day once more. Gaining Ra’s Blessingrequires a month-long period of fasting and meditation,at the end of which the character might be granted thechance to spend a few precious hours in sunlight. Eventhis brief period, however, can bolster the character’sHumanity. System: After completing the month of contemplation, the character ritually washes herself and preparesto greet the dawn. The player spends 10 blood pointsand rolls Humanity (difficulty 9). Every success allowsthe character to withstand the sunlight as if she weremortal for a single hour. If the roll fails or botches, thecharacter cannot attempt Ra’s Blessing for a decade.If the roll succeeds, though, the character can usethe reaffirmation of seeing sunlight as a way to boosther Humanity and Virtues. For every hour spent under the sun, the Child can roll his Humanity, or oneof his Virtues, against a difficulty of 9. Success meansthat trait is raised by one, while failure or botching thisroom means no gain.

--Daimoinon
	*These are the mysteries of the Baali, black arts tornwhole and beating from the sorcerer-kings of ancientcultures and prehistoric civilizations, incoherentmemories passed from tome to tongue, hearkening totimes of oblivion. They are sibilant secrets in which allbegins to end and begin again. With every new nightand novice brought into the circle, the telling growsshorter.
	1:Sense the Sin
	*A real mark always convinces himself. The mostdangerous Baali aren’t the ones that use extortion,threats, or over displays of power; the most dangerousDemons simply know how to talk their victims intocutting their own throats. This power allows the Baalito find a target’s particular vice.System: The player rolls Perception + Empathyagainst living or undead beings; the difficulty is equalto the subject’s Self-Control or Instincts +4. If successful, the Baali can sense the subject’s greatest weakness.The significance of this information is dictated by thedegree of success: One success might determine a lowVirtue, weak Willpower, or a poorly defended avenueof approach, while two might yield a closely guardedsecret or conversational misstep. Three or more yieldsa central derangement or formative trauma from thesubject’s past.
	2:Fear of the Void Below
	*Once the Baali has mastered reading a subject’s darkest secrets, he can reach into the victim’s mind andtwist what he finds there. The shock of feeling one’s most deeply held beliefs and darkest fears manipulatedcan send the victim into catatonia or fits of panic.System: The Baali must first employ Sense the Sin(above) or use some other method to discern the tragicflaw of the target. She must then speak to the target,playing upon his inadequacies and the inescapableconsequences of his shortcomings. A successful Wits+ Intimidation roll (difficulty of the subject’s Courage+4) drives the victim into fits of terror (one success),mindless panic-borne flight similar to Rötschreck (twosuccesses), or even unconsciousness (three or moresuccesses). All effects last for the remainder of thescene. Kindred targets may resist with a Courage roll(difficulty equal to the Baali’s Willpower) — they areaccustomed to dealing with their Beasts. If the Kindredtarget garners more successes than the Baali did on heroriginal roll, he resists the power completely.
	3:Conflagration
	*Not all of the Baali’s powers are designed for manipulation and subtlety. The Demons can also call up thefire from the realms of their infernal patrons, hurling itat their enemies in exultation of the Outer Dark. Thisfire spreads and burns normally, but at the moment ofcreation it is black and cold, as though drawn from aplace where terrestrial physics do not apply.System: The player spends a blood point. This createsa bolt of black flame that inflicts one die of aggravateddamage; more blood points may be spent to increasethe size and damage of the flame. Such fires are fleetingand dissipate at the end of the turn, unless the Baalicontinues to spend blood points on Conflagration overseveral turns, gradually creating a larger flame. Theplayer also rolls Dexterity + Occult (difficulty 6) to hithis target, who may dodge as normal. Vampires confronted with this black fire make Rötschreck tests as ifconfronted with a similar quantity of normal flame.
	4:Psychomachia
	*With this power, the Baali combines his ability toread the psyche of a victim with the ability to summonup matter from the Outer Dark. Psychomachia pits avictim against the most dangerous, shameful parts ofher own subconscious.System: The vampire, after learning the targets tragic flaw (such as after using Sense the Sin, above), forcesthe subject’s player to roll her lowest Virtue (difficulty6). Failing this roll pits the target against an apparitionsummoned from her darker self, perceptible to the subject only. The target may see or feel his abusive father, a long-dead lover, a childhood bogeyman, or (for Kindred victims) even the Beast itself. A botch indicatesthe target has been overwhelmed and frenzies — or,worse, becomes possessed by his inner demons.This imaginary antagonist may be wholly narrated,or assigned Traits equivalent or slightly inferior to thevictim’s, at the Storyteller’s option. All injuries sustained by the target in such an encounter are illusory(substitute catatonia or torpor for death as appropriate)and vanish upon the phantasm’s defeat or the Baali’sloss of concentration.
	5:Condemnation
	*The Baali levies a curse upon the victim. The moreskillful in her dark studies the Baali has become, themore dire the curse is likely to be. Legend states thatsome Baali can wield curses so foul that the victims attempt suicide after a single night — only to find thatthey can no longer die.System: An Intelligence + Occult roll (difficultyequal to the subject’s Willpower) dictates the lengthand severity of the curse. Successes must be split between both these effects, as per the sidebar below.The player must split successes between effect andduration – curses with zero successes allotted to duration last for one night. For example, if the Baali’s playerrolls four successes, she can inflict a two-success cursefor one month, a three-success curse for up to week,or a four-success curse for one night. At any time, theBaali may choose to end the curse. Storytellers shouldfeel free to invent creative or story-appropriate curses.
	6: Concordance
	*The Baali makes a Devil’s bargain and takes theunholy nature of his masters into his own being. Thiswarps his body both to his detriment and benefit. Atruly dedicated Demon might make numerous suchpacts, growing more grotesque and more powerful eachtime.System: The most typical manifestation of thispower incorporates immunity to the damaging effectsof fire, though other equivalently-powered assets maybe available at the Storyteller’s option. Most of thesetributes take the form of left-handed “gifts” with unforeseen consequences (a telltale bronze tint to flameresistant flesh, a vestigial set of wings, visible talons orhorns that cannot be concealed, etc.). This Disciplinemay be purchased more than once at greater cost tobody and soul. (The current shaitan is said to have beenso gnarled and twisted by the Masters as to be no longer even remotely mistakable for human.)Note that three of the banes particular to the Baali— piety, vulnerability to sunlight, and dependency onblood for sustenance — may not be overcome by thisDiscipline under any circumstances. In the end, it isup to the Storyteller’s discretion what the Baali can orcannot withstand.
	7: Summon the Herald of Topheth
	*Using the same skill that allows for calling up demon-fire, the Baali can call a minion of his masters toEarth. Although the names assigned them differ (angel, demon, daeva, djinn, efreet, malakim, shedim, and countless others), the end results are the same. Thisbeing is under the Baali’s control, at least for a shorttime after being summoned. Yet scholars who havestudied the blasphemous rite by which this Disciplineis enacted note that no provision is made for banishingthe Herald.System: To summon a Herald of Topheth, the Demon must spend at least three blood points and perform an infernal ceremony. Heralds of Topheth havethe following stats: Attributes 10/7/3, Abilities (15points worth), Willpower 8, Disciplines (10 pointsworth), Fortitude of at least 3, and the capacity to healone health level at least every other round. Storytellers should feel free to alter these guidelines based onthe power level of the troupe and the form the Heraldtakes. Though most celestial beings chafe at the notionof wearing a single shape, many adopt those commonto myth and legend; preternatural succubi or angels,reptilian horrors, and bat-winged monsters are amongthe most often seen.
	8: Contagion
	*The most damaging disease is human sin. Pandoralearned it to her detriment, as did the ungrateful andimpolite denizens of Sodom. The Baali, of course, revelin the slow decay of human settlements, and Methuselahs of the bloodline learn to infect a mortal community with jealousy, slander, hate, and bigotry. Crimeand violence soar, petty angers give rise to seethinghatreds, and local economies take a downward spiral.Marriages end over trivial quarrels and the world becomes a nastier place in general. In the history of theBaali, entire towns and villages have been temporarilyenslaved to an infernal master’s will.System: Successes garnered on an Intelligence + Occult roll (difficulty 9) must be divided between the intensity and the area of the desired effect – at least twosuccesses are needed to cover both area and effect. Sufficiently high degrees of Auspex or powers that detectdemons may be able to pick up on this vague, malevolent aura; otherwise they will simply assume that timeshave taken a dire change for the worse.
		@1 success		Immediate vicinity			Ill-tempered/out-ofsorts behavior		
		@2 successes		An office complex			Civil/domesticunrest, prejudice
		@3 successes 		A city block				Angry (even riotous)dissent
		@4 successes		A stadium or apartment complex	Bar-brawls,hatecrimes, blood in thestreets
		@5+ successes 		An entire city 			A throng of blood thirsty single-minded Philistines
	9: Call the Great Beast
	*This Discipline is largely theoretical. Baali have, inthe past, boasted that their most powerful elders knowa ritual that can tear a rift to the Outer Dark and allowthe creatures that dwell there into our world. Occasionally, a vampire destroys a Baali and sees the beginnings of such a ritual carved on a wall or tattooed ontoa minion’s flesh. But even among the Kindred whoknow of the Baali and what they are capable of, theability to Call the Great Beast doesn’t meet with muchcredence. This isn’t because the Kindred don’t thinkit’s possible, but because they realize that if a Demonever succeeded in using it, there wouldn’t be much tobe done anyway.System: The preparatory ritual requires a tremendous investment of time and sacrifice; veiled allusionssuch as “fivescore souls, plucked clean and whole” and“when three times sets the hooded sun” indicate a selective sacrificial rite spanning days, nights, and dozensof victims. (Deviation or imperfection in this litanymay well have unforeseen consequences, ranging fromsimple failure to unwelcome demonic attention)At this point, the high priest expends all of his permanent Willpower and releases his consciousness in adesperate attempt to breach the gulf Beyond, becoming an empty vessel for whatever will most effectivelyend the world as your chronicle knows it. You’re theStoryteller — what would the Devil do to your world?(Call the Great Beast has two main functions in thechronicle. It’s either a plot device that the charactersmust work to prevent, or a means to change the worldof Vampire into a demon-infested apocalypse. Either isuseful, but it’s not the sort of power that a vampire justpulls out casually.)

--Flight
	*Gargoyles possess a fourth in-clan Discipline, calledFlight. All Gargoyles start with a free dot, and it canbe increased like any other Discipline. As the Gargoylegains dots of Flight, he becomes capable of flying faster,as follows:
	1:The character cannot actually fly, but can soar likea hang-glider. He also cannot carry anything (he needshis hands to help steer). Maximum speed is equal toprevailing winds, or 15 miles/25 kilometers per hourin calm air.
	2:The character can make a running takeoff andcarry 20 pounds/10 kilograms while flying. Maximumspeed is 30 miles/50 kilometers per hour.
	3:The character can make a straight, verticaltakeoff if unencumbered, or can make a running takeoff carrying up to 50 pounds/25 kg. Maximum air speedis 45 miles/70 kilometers per hour.
	4:The character can now make a vertical takeoffwith up to 50 pounds/25 kg of baggage, but can carry upto 100 pounds/45 kg while flying. Maximum speed is 60miles/95 kilometers per hour.
	5:The character can now carry up to 200pounds/90 kg, easily enough to carry away an adultperson (or vampire). Maximum speed is 75 miles/120kilometers per hour.Further dots in the Discipline add 100 pounds/45 kgof weight and 20 miles/30 kilometers per hour to thespeed. Gargoyles don’t think of Flight as a Discipline.To them, it’s just flight, part and parcel to being a Gargoyle, and may be baffled by notions such as teachingit to other vampires.

--Melpominee
	*Named for Melpomene, the Greek Muse of tragedy,the unique Discipline of the Daughters of Cacophonyis one of speech and song. The powers of this Discipline explore the various uses of the voice for bothbenefit and harm. As is the case with mortal art, it isnot always clear which of those directions these powerstake. No character may have a rating in Melpomineehigher than her Performance rating. Melpominee affects the subject’s soul as well as the ears; thus, it worksperfectly well on deaf subjects, and has caused at leastone known breach of the Masquerade due to this effect.Additionally, the powers of Melpominee work only onthose who are present when it is used — Daughtersof Cacophony cannot record Melpominee effects, sendthem across radio waves, or have them streamed overthe Internet.Daughters of Cacophony can use some of the powers ofthe Melpominee Discipline in concert, as it were. If morethan one Siren uses the same level of this Discipline simultaneously, the difficulty for the roll falls by one foreach Daughter involved beyond the first. The difficultycannot fall lower than 3, however. The Discipline levelsthat can benefit from this rule are noted below.
	1:The Missing Voice
	*The character can “throw” her voice anywhere within her line of sight. This enables the Daughter to carryon surreptitious conversations, sing duets with herself,or cause any number of distractions. This power canalso be combined with other Melpominee powers todisguise their source (and some Daughters use it toconceal the fact that Melpominee powers do not function through recorded media). System: This power functions automatically as longas the character wills it. However, using The MissingVoice while performing any action other than speechor singing incurs a penalty of two dice on that actiondue to the disruption of the character’s concentration.
	2:Phantom Speaker
	*The Daughter can project her voice to any individual she has personally met. Distance is no object,but it must be night wherever the target presently is.The vampire can sing, talk, or otherwise project hervoice in any way she sees fit (including other uses ofMelpominee), but she cannot hear what she is saying,and therefore suffers a +1 difficulty to any rolls accompanying her utterance. For instance, the vampire couldproject her voice to an enemy in an attempt to intimidate him, but would suffer a +1 to the difficulty of theCharisma + Intimidation roll.System: The player rolls Wits + Performance (difficulty 7) and spends a blood point. Each success allows one turn of speech; three or more successes allowspeech for an entire scene.
	3:Madrigal
	*Music has the power to sway the listener, engendering specific emotions through artful lyrics, poundingcrescendo, or haunting melody. The Daughters of Cacophony can tap into music’s power, forcing listenersto feel whatever they wish. The emotion becomes sopowerful that the listener must act, though what a listener does isn’t something the Siren can directly control.System: The player rolls Charisma + Performance(difficulty 7). Each success instills the chosen emotionin a fifth of the Kindred’s audience (more than five successes have no additional effect). The Storyteller decides precisely which members of the audience are affected. Characters may resist this power for the durationof the scene with the expenditure of a Willpower point,but only if they have reason to believe that they are being controlled by outside individuals. The song thevampire sings must also reflect the emotion she wishesto engender — no one’s going to mob the concert security no matter how well she sings “High Hopes,” butthey might if she performs “I Predict a Riot.”
	4:Siren’s Beckoning
	*The Daughters of Cacophony don’t spread madnessas surely (or as visibly) as the Malkavians, but theirsongs are definitely detrimental to one’s sanity. Withthis power, the Daughter can drive any listener to madness. Most of the time, the victim is too fascinated torealize that he should leave the area and block out themusic from his mind.System: Siren’s Beckoning requires an extended,resisted roll. The player rolls Manipulation + Performance (difficulty equal to the target’s current Willpower); the victim resists with a Willpower roll (difficulty equal to the singer’s Appearance + Performance).If the singer accumulates five more successes than thevictim at any point, the hapless soul acquires a newderangement or Psychological Flaw of the Storyteller’schoice. This derangement normally lasts for one night,with an additional night per success over five. Witha total of 20 net successes, the Daughter can make itpermanent.Multiple Daughters may use this Discipline in concert. Affected individuals should act in accordance withtheir Natures — enraged Conformists would join a riotbut not start one, aroused Bravos may force their attentions on the object of their desire, and jealous Directors may send cronies after their rivals. Multiple Daughters may use this Discipline in concert.
	5:Virtuosa
	*Most of the low-level Melpominee powers can onlybe used on one target at a time. When the Daughterreaches this level of mastery in her Discipline, she can“entertain” a wider audience. Each member of the audience hears the same message.System: The Daughter may use Phantom Speaker orSiren’s Beckoning on a number of targets equal to herStamina + Performance. The player must spend oneblood point for every five targets beyond the first.
	6: Shattering Crescendo
	*The Daughter can sing powerfully enough to rendflesh, split skin, and crack bone. While some Kindredunfortunate enough to witness this power make refer-ence to the fact that even mortal singers can shatterglass at the right frequency, others note that volumeand intensity don’t seem to matter when a Daughteremploys Shattering Crescendo. The Siren can sing asoothing lullaby and still kill a target. System: Use of this power requires that the victimbe within hearing range (characters with hearing difficulties — or Heightened Senses — are affected at thesame range as other victims). The player spends oneblood point and rolls Manipulation + Performance(difficulty of the target’s Stamina + Fortitude). Eachsuccess inflicts one health level of aggravated damage,which may not be soaked. If using this power on an inanimate object, the Storyteller determines how manydice (if any) the object may use to “soak” and howmany successes are needed to completely shatter it. Multiple Daughters may use this Discipline in concert.
	7: Persistent Echo
	*The Daughter can sing, speak, or even use a Melpominee power and leave the effect hanging in the air,waiting for someone to come along and hear it. Thecharacter can control who can trigger her latent song,meaning that combined with Shattering Crescendo orSiren’s Beckoning, this power can be used as a trap.System: The player rolls Stamina + Performance(difficulty 8) and spends a blood point. Each successyields one turn of speech that may be left to be heardlater. If the player wishes to time-delay another Melpominee power, the roll for that power must be madeat +1 difficulty. The echo stays suspended for a maximum number of nights equal to twice the vampire’sStamina + Performance before fading.The Kindred may choose to make the echo audible toanyone who stands in her position for the duration of thepower — in effect, an endlessly looped mystic recording.Conversely, she may choose for it to fade away once itis heard for the first time. She may also choose to leaveit dormant until activated by the presence of a specificindividual with whom she is familiar. If the echo is madea one-time-only effect, all traces of the power disappearonce the vampire’s words echo to the intended recipient.If a character uses Heightened Senses in an areawhere an “unactivated” echo exists, he will hear a faintmurmur. Three successes on a Perception + Occult roll(difficulty 8) are necessary to hear the message, and abotch on this roll will deafen the listener for the restof the night.Multiple Daughters may use this Discipline in concert.

--Mytherceria
	*Whatever odd commingling of blood which produced the Kiasyd has led to a number of weird effects,not least of which is the Mytherceria Discipline. Thiscollection of powers mimics the abilities of faeries —or at least, that’s the best guess of the Kindred who arefamiliar with it. The Kiasyd use this power to alter andbeguile the minds of their foes, as well as to force othersto tell the truth. The Kiasyd do not, in general, teachthis Discipline to those outside the bloodline, and supposedly it would require oaths sworn on the lifebloodof the student to learn.
	1:Folderol
	*The Kiasyd can cleave truth from lies. The exact effect varies from vampire to vampire. Some Kiasyd experience bleeding from the eyes or ears when they heara lie, while some Weirdlings’ eyes glow when told afalsehood. Whatever the effect, this power detects lies,not mistakes, meaning that a target has to know he islying in order for this power to work.System: The character knows when a target is deliberately lying. No roll or expenditure is necessary forthis power to work, but the character must deliberatelyactivate it. Note that this power does not provide anyinsight into what the truth might be, nor does it enablethe vampire to tell if a target is simply stating something false that he believes to be true.
	2:Fae Sight
	*The Kiasyd’s knowledge of magic isn’t just theoretical. Their strangely-colored eyes are capable of detecting the arcane energies of the fae, as well as magic fromother, more esoteric sources. They are not, however,capable of using this power to detect the residue ofghosts or vampiric magic.System: The Kiasyd sees faeries and other faetouched mortals for what they really are, with no rollrequired. Additionally, the player can detect any formof magic that does not stem from ghosts or the undead,including magic from mages, werewolves, and othersuch odd sources. The character can recognize thesefor what they truly are, provided he has seen similareffects before.
	3:Aura Absorption
	*The Kiasyd is capable of seeing images of events andemotions past by touching an object or an area. However, unlike the Auspex Power The Spirit’s Touch, this power absorbs the images, making them harder forother beings with similar powers to access. Anyone attempting to use this power, Spirit’s Touch, or a similarability to see what the Kiasyd has seen finds that theimages are hard to hold, slipping through his mind’seye like minnows through a stream.System: The player must make a Perception + Empathy roll. The difficulty is determined by the Storyteller based on the age of the impressions and themental and spiritual strength of the person who leftthem. The number of successes determines the amountof information gained, both in terms of images of thescene when the object was being held or touched, andthe nature of the person who was holding the object.One scene-type image and one aspect of the person’sidentity (Nature, Demeanor, aura, name, sex, or age)becomes clear for each success the player garners onthe roll. Anyone attempting to use this power or TheSpirit’s Touch on the same object subsequently mustaccumulate more successes than the Kiasyd did to getany impression at all. The first Kiasyd’s successes subtract from the number of successes scored by anyonetrying to read the object thereafter.
	4:Chanjelin Ward
	*The vampire inscribes a ward on an object, a location, or a person. That ward disorients and befuddlesanyone that sees it, meaning that even if an intrudercan penetrate a Weirdling’s security and steal an objectof value, he’s unlikely to be able to find his way to theexit. Spiteful Kiasyd use these wards as punishment —one story tells of a Weirdling that drew a ward on anenemy’s shirt as dawn approached, and then watched(from safety) as the unfortunate vampire burned in thesun, unable to remember which way to run.System: The vampire creating the ward inscribes thesymbol in a visible location — on a library door, bookshelf, or an individual’s clothing — and the player rollsIntelligence + Larceny (difficulty 7 for inanimate objects, or the subject’s current Willpower +2). Anyoneentering the warded area or touching the warded object loses two dice from her Intelligence dice pools aslong as she maintains contact with or proximity to theward. Additionally, anyone seeing the ward becomesaddled and lost unless she succeeds on a Wits + Investigation roll (difficulty 8). The Kiasyd is immune to hisown wards. The glyphs last for a duration indicated bythe number of successes on the Intelligence + Larcenyroll:
		@1 success		One hour
		@2 successes		One night
		@3 successes		One week
		@4 successes		One month
		@5 successes		One year
	5:The Riddle Phantastique
	*The Kiasyd whispers a riddle to an opponent, andthe riddle consumes his mind. The target can do nothing until he solves the riddle, and no one can help him— answers provided by others, even correct answers,fail to counteract this affliction.System: The player rolls Manipulation + Occult(difficulty of the victim’s current Willpower). After asuccessful roll, the victim can do nothing but sit andponder the Riddle until she accumulates three timesthe riddler’s successes. The subject rolls Wits + Occult (difficulty 8, plus or minus the number of derangements the victim has, at the Storyteller’s discretion).She makes this roll as soon as she is told the Riddle,and then once per hour until she has gathered enoughsuccesses. Should the victim botch on a roll to solvethe Riddle, she takes one level of lethal damage as themystical enigma racks her body, and she loses all successes from the accumulated total. This damage cannotbe healed until the Riddle has been solved. The riddlercan end this trance by telling the victim the answer,but no one else can.
	6: Steal the Mind
	*Legends tell of the Fair Folk taking the memories andfaculties of their victims, leaving these hapless peopledrooling idiots for the rest of their lives. While modernthinking is that these stories actually referred to strokevictims, elder Kiasyd display a power with a similar effect. The victim of Steal the Mind loses his memoriesand all knowledge he has accumulated. The Kiasydgains these memories for a short time, and generallyuses this time to inscribe them before they revert tothe original owner… assuming the Weirdling lets thathappen.System: The player selects a mortal or supernatural target and rolls Perception + Subterfuge (difficultyequal to the target’s current Willpower). While theKiasyd has “stolen” her subject’s mind, she retains herown consciousness, but has complete access to all ofthe subject’s thoughts and memories. Subjects have no knowledge that they have been affected in this manner, though any attempts to harm them — by the Kiasyd or anyone else — return their wits to them immediately. Subjects have no access to their Knowledgeswhile this power is active, but Talents and most Skills(those that work on muscle memory) are still present.The Storyteller might need to exercise discretion as towhich Abilities are lost. Those who are victims of this power for long periodsof time may starve, though they will eat food presentedto them. The number of successes determines the duration of the effect, though the Kiasyd may return thesubject’s mind at any time before this period ends. Ifthe victim dies before the memories return, the Weirdling keeps them. If the Kiasyd kills the target to keephis memory, the character may need to roll for degeneration (see p. 309) depending on what Path they follow — Kiasyd on Humanity must always roll.
		@1 Success		10 minutes
		@2 Successes		One hour
		@3 Successes		One night
		@4 Successes		One week
		@5 Successes		One month
	7: Absorb the Mind
	*This power, similar to Steal the Mind, allows thevampire to absorb Abilities from her victim. Thesetraits are transferred permanently; the victim loses theknowledge, and the Kindred gains it. Absorb the Mindis an extremely invasive and insidious power, and fortunately only a bare handful of Kindred in the worldknow of it.System: The player rolls Perception + Empathy (difficulty equal to the target’s current Willpower). Thetarget may resist with a Willpower roll (difficulty equalto the Kiasyd’s current Willpower). The difference between the two determines the effect. If the target getsmore successes, he resists completely and the Kiasydmay never use Absorb the Mind on this target again.The Kiasyd, if successful, may select a combination ofAbilities to her satisfaction.Taking some of a victim’s Ability dots may leave aremainder — the Kiasyd need not take all of a subject’sdots in a given Ability. For example, a character withthree dots in Occult, from whom a Kiasyd steals one,retains an Occult of 2. If a Kiasyd takes fewer dots than she already has in a given Ability, these points do notserve to raise her own rating. (In the previous example,the Kiasyd would not increase his Occult rating if healready had a rating of one or more, as he took onlyone dot.) If the Kiasyd fails in an attempt to use thispower on a target, no subsequent attempt can be madeon that target for a year and a day.In all cases, the maximum to which the Kiasyd canraise an Ability is the level the target has in that Ability, so if a victim has only one dot in Law and the Kiasydgets 2 successes, she can’t gain 2 dots in Law. Generational restrictions do apply: a Sixth-Generation Kiasydcan have a maximum of seven dots in an Ability, forexample. All losses of Abilities on the part of the victim are permanent, though they may be returned totheir original levels via experience-point expenditure.
		@1 Success		Steal 1 dot
		@2 Successes		Steal 2 dots in one Ability
		@3 Successes		Steal 3 dots in up to two Abilities	
		@4 Successes		Steal 4 dots in up to three Abilities
		@5 Successes		Steal 5 dots in up to four Abilities
	8: The Grandest Trick
	*The Kiasyd can fool himself into believing that he isnot, and has never been, a vampire. This trick lasts fora short time, during which the character gives up allblessings (but loses all drawbacks) of being Kindred.He retains all of his other knowledge, but the magicof the Grandest Trick deftly prevents him from figuring out the truth (notes that explain the truth vanish, knowledge of clues that would lead him to it don’tmake sense, etc.). The Grandest Trick is useful forthrowing vampire hunters off a character’s scent, butalso for gathering information that can only be obtained during the day. Rumors among younger Kiasydalso persist that some elders of the bloodline use theGrandest Trick to meet during the day once every 50years, exchanging documents and letters that, for thatday, make no sense to any of them. It is only after theTrick wears off that they remember who they are andcan read what their Clanmates wrote.System: The player spends eight blood points andmakes a Willpower roll (difficulty 9). If this roll issuccessful, the character becomes mortal at the nextsunrise for a duration determined by the number ofsuccesses on the roll. The Kiasyd knows, however sub- liminally, the duration of the power, and he automatically attempts to return to safety, should daylight be aproblem at the power’s end. After this power ends, theKiasyd retains all memories of his brief return to theworld of mortals. During his time as a mortal, the character’s Traits are limited to ratings of 5 (which returnto their original levels when the character becomes avampire again), and the character has no access to herDisciplines. Likewise, the character may not use bloodpoints for any vampiric benefits while mortal.
		@1 success		10 minutes
		@2 successes		One hour
		@3 successes		Four hours
		@4 successes		12 hours
		@5 successes		24 hours

--Obeah
	*The bloodline known in modern nights simply asthe Salubri is actually descendant of one half of theancient Clan. In bygone nights, one might have spoken of “healer” and “warrior” Salubri. In the modernnights, the last vestiges of the warrior Salubri are theantitribu of the Clan, and practice their Discipline ofValeren (see p. 474). The rest of the bloodline knowthe Discipline of Obeah. This Discipline allows the Salubri to judge and even improve a subject’s health. Asthe vampire grows more powerful, Obeah lets her heala target’s soul directly. It is this power that forms thebasis of the “soulsucker” charge that dogs the bloodlinethese nights.This Discipline gives its practitioners a third eye inthe center of the vampire’s forehead when the Kindredmasters the second level of Obeah.
	1:Sense Vitality
	*With a touch, the Salubri can instantaneously reada target’s injuries. She may learn how much damage atarget has incurred, and therefore make a guess at whatmust be done to save him. This power can also be usedfor diagnostic purposes — useful for a victim who canno longer speak.System: The Salubri must touch the target to see howclose to death she is. He must then make a Perception+ Empathy roll (difficulty 7). One success on this rollidentifies a subject as a mortal, vampire, ghoul, or other creature. Two successes reveal how many health levelsof damage the subject has suffered. Three successes tellhow full the subject’s blood pool is (if a vampire) orhow many blood points she has left in her system (if amortal or other blood-bearing form of life). Four successes reveal any diseases in the subject’s bloodstream.A player may opt to learn the information yielded bya lesser degree of success — for example, a player whoaccumulates three successes may learn whether or nota subject is a vampire as well as the contents of hisblood pool.Alternately, each success on this roll allows the playerto ask the Storyteller one question about the subject’shealth or health levels. “Was he drugged?” or “Are hiswounds aggravated?” are valid questions, but “Did theSabbat do this?” or “What did the Lupine who attackedhim look like?” are not. The Salubri may use this poweron herself if she has injuries but has somehow lost thememory of how the wounds were received.Additionally, at the cost of one blood point, the Salubri may use Empathy for a roll instead of Medicine.
	2:Anesthetic Touch
	*The vampire can ease a target’s pain or place himinto a deep, soothing sleep with nothing but a touch.This power is intended to heal the pain or succor themind of willing targets, but the character can, withsome effort, employ the power against someone whodoes not wish it.System: If the subject is willing to undergo thisprocess, the player spends a blood point and makes aWillpower roll (difficulty 6) to block the subject’s pain.This allows the subject to ignore all wound penaltiesfor one turn per success. A second application of thispower may be made once the first one has expired, atthe cost of another blood point and another Willpower roll. If the subject is unwilling for some reason, theplayer must make a contested Willpower roll againstthe subject (difficulty 8).To put a mortal to sleep, the same system applies.The mortal sleeps for five to 10 hours — whatever hisnormal sleep cycle is — and regains one temporaryWillpower point upon awakening. He sleeps peacefully and does not suffer nightmares or the effects of any derangements while asleep. He may be awakenednormally (or violently).Kindred, including the Salubri herself, are unaffectedby this power — their corpselike bodies are too tied todeath.
	3:Corpore Sano
	*The Salubri can heal wounds with a laying-on ofhands. The subject feels a warm, tingling sensationover the affected areas as pain leaves the body andflesh knits. The vampire’s third eye opens during thisprocess.System: This power works on any living or undeadcreature, but the character must touch the actual injury (or the closest part of the victim’s body, in the caseof internal injuries). Each health level to be healed requires the expenditure of one blood point and one turnof contact. Aggravated wounds may also be healed inthis manner, but the vampire must spend two bloodpoints instead of one for each aggravated health level.
	4:Shepherd’s Watch
	*The Salubri with this level of mastery of Obeah cancreate an invisible barrier between those under hiscare and those who would do them harm. The Salubrihimself must stand among his charges as he generatesthis barrier; he cannot defend them from afar. Enemiesarmed with guns or other ranged weapons can still attack, but none may approach closer than a few paces.System: The player spends two Willpower points.Erecting this barrier is a standard action, but maintaining it from turn to turn or dropping it is a reflexiveaction. The invisible barrier extends to about a 3-yard/meter radius from the character, and no one outsidethat barrier may cross it while she maintains the power.Those within it at its creation may leave and return,however. The barrier moves with the Salubri. It cannot be maintained at a distance.Those who wish to cross the barrier from the outside,whether friendly or hostile, must best the character inan extended, resisted Willpower roll (difficulty equalsthe opponent’s current Willpower for the Salubri, andthe Salubri’s current Willpower for the opponent).The opponent may cross the barrier as soon as he accumulates three more net successes than the Salubri.
	5:Mens Sana
	*With this power, the Salubri can heal madness, quieting inner demons and bringing a soul to peace. Indeed, ancient stories of the Salubri state that Saulot used this power to bring sweet, if temporary, relief tohis “brother” Malkav. Other, more recent stories claimthat Saulot caused Malkav’s madness in the first place.System: The player spends two blood points androlls Intelligence + Empathy (difficulty 8). The use ofMens Sana takes at least 10 minutes of relatively uninterrupted conversation. Success cures the subject ofone derangement of the Salubri player’s choice. Thispower cannot cure a Malkavian of his core derangement, though it alleviates its effects for the rest of thescene. A botch inflicts the same derangement on theSalubri for the rest of the scene. This power may not beused by the Salubri to cure her own derangements.
	6: Unburdening the Bestial Soul
	*This power is the leverage that the Tremere haveused for years to tarnish the Salubri’s name. The Warlocks claim that the Salubri use this power to removethe souls of their victims, alter them in horrible ways,or simply consume them and then make mindless slavesfrom the blasted husks. The truth is that the Cyclopsuse this power to rebuild a target’s tattered soul, at theexpense of their own mental fortitude.The Salubri draws the subject’s soul out of his body,and into the vampire’s third eye. There, the vampirerepairs the soul. During this time, the target’s bodyis vacant, but alive. It obeys the Salubri’s commands(and the vampire must command it to eat and drink,or else it will starve — repairing the soul is not a quickundertaking).By a similar process, the character can cleanse aperson, place, or object of demonic or evil influence.This isn’t a simple banishment, however. It is a battle,pitting the Salubri’s moral and spiritual purity againstwhatever malign entity is present. If the Salubri losesthe contest, she might lose her own soul in the process.System: This power may be used to draw out the soulof any character except those with Humanity or Pathratings of 1 or 0 or those who follow particularly inhuman Paths of Enlightenment – some souls are beyondredemption. The player rolls Stamina + Empathy (difficulty of 12 minus the subject’s Humanity or Path rating). A botch gives the Salubri the subject’s derangement for the remainder of the scene. The Salubri mustmake eye contact with the subject and the subject mustbe willing to be subjected to this power.A soul drawn out in this manner becomes part of theSalubri’s soul while the healing process takes place. Shemay return it to its proper body at any time. While the soul is within the Salubri, she may spend a permanentWillpower point to restore a point to the subject’s Humanity or Path rating. The Salubri may restore a maximum number of points equal to her Empathy rating,and may not raise the subject’s Humanity or Path higher than the sum of his relevant Virtues (for example, acharacter subscribing to Humanity with Conscience 3and Self-Control 3 could not have his Humanity raisedabove 6 in this manner).While a soul is being held by the Salubri, its bodyis an empty husk, comatose or in torpor, with no motivating force within it. A soul whose body is killedimmediately vanishes, its disposition unknown to any(although the Salubri strongly suspect that souls thatvanish in this manner are completely and irreversiblydestroyed). Killing the body of a drawn-out soul maywarrant a Conscience or Conviction roll if the killerknows of the soul’s absence, at the Storyteller’s discretion.If used to draw out a demon, the player spends aWillpower point if the subject is willing and the corrupting agent does not resist (a rare occurrence). If thesubject is possessed by a conscious entity, the demon(or other foreign consciousness) fights the Salubri fordominance. This takes place via an extended, contested roll of the Salubri’s Humanity or Path versus theopponent’s Willpower (each party’s difficulty is equalto the other’s current Willpower). The winner is thefirst one to achieve three net successes more than theother. If the player fails, the attempt at purificationalso fails. If the player botches, the demon takes overthe Salubri’s body. This purification cannot be used ononeself and has no effect on the Beast or an alternatepersonality.Once the initial removal has been successfully performed, the player spends a second Willpower point.The Salubri thrusts the demon into a nearby item,animal, or person, trapping the demon in the selectedvessel. This must be accomplished within two turns ofthe Purification and the target must be within physicalreach. If this cannot be accomplished, the demon islikely to go free… or find another suitable vessel (suchas the Salubri). If the vampire places the demon ina being who is likely to suffer from its presence, theplayer must make an immediate Conscience or Conviction roll (difficulty 8) if the Storyteller believes thatthe character’s morality would object. A botch, in addition to the normal consequences, releases the demoninto the world.
	7: Renewed Vigor
	*At this level of power, the Salubri no longer has torepair a target’s body wound by wound. With a touchand a moment’s concentration, she can restore thebody to full health.System: The Salubri touches the target and spendsa full turn concentrating. The player spends a point ofWillpower. At the end of the turn, the target is healedof all damage, including aggravated damage. If thecharacter attempts any other action but the laying ofhands during this turn, the Willpower point is lost andno healing occurs. The Salubri can use this power onherself.
	8: Safe Passage
	*The Salubri radiates a non-threatening aura, alteringthe minds of those around her to seem safe, pleasant,and harmless. Crowds unconsciously part for her, pursuers lose interest, and passers-by are willing to provideassistance. In the event that someone does attempt todo her harm, the rest of the crowd may even protecther.System: This power is always activate, though theSalubri can turn it off if she so desires. While Safe Passage is active, anyone in a crowd (defined as more than10 people in close proximity) who wants to harm theSalubri must engage in a contested Willpower roll withthe vampire’s player (difficulty 6). If the pursuer wins,he may do as he wishes. If the vampire wins, her netsuccesses act as a dice pool penalty on any hostile action the pursuer chooses to take. This manifests as lostinterest in the vampire (the pursuers wonders why he ischasing this person rather than doing something moreinteresting).Safe Passage can also assist a Salubri in finding helpor shelter. The player rolls Charisma + Expression difficulty 7). Each success reduces the difficulty of a subsequent, appropriate Social roll by one. This affectsonly attempts to gain seemingly harmless or innocentassistance, such as a place to stay or advice on the badparts of town — a Salubri won’t be able to get automatic weapons or low-grade heroin more easily withthis power. The effects of this power last until the nextsunrise. Safe Passage affects only those who know theSalubri casually or not at all. Anyone who has knownher long enough to form an opinion of her cannot betouched by this power.
	9: Unburden the Flesh-Clad Soul
	*Some few Salubri elders can (or could, at least)achieve an understanding of the soul that allowedthem to free it from its fleshly confines. The characterallows a willing subject’s soul to fly free, able to explorethe world as an astral projection and transcend thatexistence whenever it wishes.System: The vampire and a willing subject mustboth enter a deep meditative trance for a minimumof one uninterrupted hour as the Salubri performs theritual necessary to separate soul from flesh withoutdamaging either. During this period, the player spendsa number of blood points equal to twice the permanentWillpower of the subject. At the end of the ritual, thesubject’s body slips into a coma and dies by the end ofthe night. Many Tremere and other cautious Kindredwarn that the Salubri may misrepresent themselvesand convince others to volunteer for a “release” frommortal concerns, when in truth they wish to trap thesoul in another plane of existence.The subject’s soul is released from her body and enters the astral plane (such as the Auspex power PsychicProjection on p. 138). This separation is permanentand irreversible. The subject is treated as an astrallyprojecting character in terms of rules mechanics. However, she no longer has a silver cord and no longerneeds one, as she exists independently of her body. Ifshe is reduced to zero Willpower through astral combat, she loses one point of permanent Willpower andre-forms after a year and a day at the place where thispower was used upon her. A character reduced to zeropermanent Willpower is destroyed forever.This power may only be used upon mortals (excluding mages) and vampires who are in Golconda, andthe subject must have a full understanding of what thisritual entails — including its permanence and the impossibility of a reversal. The body of a vampire who isUnbound decays at sunrise. It is possible to drink theblood remaining in the vampire’s body, but no benefitsare gained from an attempt at diablerie. Any attemptto Embrace the body of an Unbound mortal automatically fails. The free-flying soul may choose to dissipate,moving on to whatever awaits beyond death, at anytime (and is therefore not a ghost).The Salubri may use this power on herself, providedshe is in Golconda.

--Ogham
	*The Ogham Discipline is only found among the Lhiannan bloodline; they do not (some say cannot) shareits secrets with those who do not suffer from their line’scurse. All Lhiannan share a splinter of a dark, oncevast, and powerful forest spirit. Ogham allows them totap into that spirit’s power, and into its communionwith free spirits of its ilk.Ogham is a limited form of blood magic; it is neitheras flexible nor as powerful as Tremere Thaumaturgy,nor other Clans’ blood sorcery, but within the boundsset by the Lhiannan’s territorial nature it is quite powerful. Ogham is strongest within a Lhiannan’s hometerritory. More than 50 miles (80 km) from her hometerritory, the difficulty of using Ogham increases by oneacross the board, as the Lhiannan’s own spirit-shardcomes into conflict with unfamiliar local spirit life.
	1:Consecrate the Grove
	*The Lhiannan with this ability can use the powerof her blood to awaken the spirits of plant life in herterritory; they will act in her defense against any unwelcome intruder. Roots tangle feet, grass grasps atboots, trees sway unnaturally in foes’ way, and so on.Typically the Lhiannan slits a wrist and whirls in place,or stabs a palm and walks a spiral pattern through thefoliage that she wishes to awaken.System: The player spends from one to three bloodpoints, and the character must undertake the processdescribed above. One blood point rouses the plant lifein a 10-foot (3-meter) diameter; two blood points doubles that to 20 feet (6 meters); three makes it 40 feet(12 meters). Tracing the desired area takes one turnper blood point spent.When the blood has been sown, the player rolls Charisma + Survival (difficulty 6). If the roll garners evenone success, the plant life animates as the local spiritworld is roused to action. Enemies in the area suffer a -2to all dice pools from distraction and physical interference. Additionally, interlopers must make a Stamina+ Athletics roll to avoid three dice of bashing damagefrom the local flora (provided the local plant life is capable of such damage; trees and brambles probably are,but a grassy meadow doesn’t contain the kind of floranecessary for such an assault). Botching this roll causesthe plants to turn on the Lhiannan instead.This power lasts for one scene.
	2:Crimson Woad
	*The Lhiannan traces mystical runes or script on herown body in vitae, inviting spirits of war to infuse herand gird her for battle. While so imbued, she ignoresmany wounds and retains greater control of her mindas the spirits direct her Beast. The Lhiannan can alsolash out at her enemies with a fierce, blood-borne attack.System: The character spends one scene tracingthe woad on her body; this costs one blood point. Theplayer then rolls Intelligence + Occult (difficulty 7).Each success enables the character to ignore one die ofwound penalties from injury. It also subtracts one fromthe difficulty to avoid frenzy or Rötschreck. This ability lasts through one scene. Additionally, if the character receives more than four health levels of damage,the mystic inscriptions are ruined, and the spirits fleeher body.The Lhiannan may also lash out at her enemies, adding the fury of the woad to her attack. The player mayadd the number of successes achieved on the above rollto the number of dice rolled for damage for a singleclose-combat attack (this ability can only be used onceper application of Crimson Woad).
	3:Inscribe the Curse
	*The Lhiannan inscribes the name of an enemy onher body in vitae, in whatever language or set of symbols she likes. When the name is so inscribed and theLhiannan’s enemy can see it, baleful spirits becomebound to the name and enact a curse upon that enemy.The curse takes effect the moment the victim sees hisname scrawled in blood.System: The player spends three blood points. TheLhiannan must write the foe’s name in blood, and itmust be displayed on a part of her body visible to intended target in order for Inscribe the Curse to takeeffect. The player chooses which curse to enact on thetarget from the list below; the curse takes effect as soonas the target sees his name. He does not need to understand the language used, but if he can comprehendit, he may resist the curse with a Wits + Occult roll(difficulty 8).The curses described below expire when the glyph iserased, worn off, or defaced by the Lhiannan’s takingfour or more health levels of damage. The curse worksdifferently depending on where the Lhiannan inscribesthe target’s name. Body: Inscribe the name on arms, legs, or belly. Thevictim’s body becomes ill and weak (+2 to all difficulties on Physical rolls, and all wound penalties areincreased by one die) or, in the case of Cainites, thevictim cannot use blood other than the one point perday necessary to remain active.Mind: Inscribe the name across the forehead. Thefoe becomes confused as parts of his mind become disconnected from one another; he must spend one Willpower point in order to attempt any Knowledge roll oruse any magical ability or Discipline (other than Celerity, Fortitude, or Potence). This Willpower doesn’tbuy him a success on that roll; it simply allows him tomake it.Voice: Inscribe the name on the throat. The victimloses the power of speech; he can grunt or moan, butcannot say any words.Soul: Inscribe the name down the sternum and overthe heart. The subject loses his will to resist the Beast:difficulties to avoid frenzy are increased by two. Nonvampires are overcome by fear. The target must flee theLhiannan’s territory unless he succeeds in a Courageroll (difficulty 8).
	4:Moon and Sun
	*The life of a Cainite is dominated by two celestialbodies: the sun, which she must fear and hate; and themoon, her only safe source of light. A Lhiannan cantrace ancient sigils of those two orbs on her body togain gifts – the spirit of the moon, ever the vampire’sfriend, blesses her by its current phase, while the sun’sspirit wards off some of that orb’s fiery curse.System: The player spends three blood points. TheLhiannan inscribes the desired sigil on her body overthe course of 15 minutes. The sigil can be inscribedanywhere, but must be exposed. The character maychoose to inscribe both the moon and the sun, buteach symbol requires the blood expenditure and 15minutes to trace it. She can also inscribe these sigils onany voluntary subject.The sun emblem protects a vampire from the worsteffects of fire and sunlight. So long as the symbol remains on the character’s body, the player makes aStamina roll (difficulty 8) when afflicted by fire or sunlight. If the roll is successful, the damage is consideredlethal and the player may roll to soak it normally. Thisroll must be made every time the character faces suchdamage. The moon emblem adds one to the difficulties of SelfControl/Instinct rolls to avoid frenzy (but not Couragerolls to avoid Rötschreck). Other effects of the moonemblem depend on the current phase of the moon:New Moon: Add one die to Dexterity and Stealthdice pools.Crescent Moon: Add one die to Wits and Occult dicepools.Half Moon: Add one die to Perception and Subterfuge dice pools.Gibbous Moon: Add one die to Charisma and Expression dice pools.Full Moon: Add one die to Strength and Brawl dicepools.
	5:Drink Dry the Earth
	*The spirit within every Lhiannan is drawn to sitesof mystical energy, whether ancient stone circles, faerie rings, or dragon tracks. That spirit-shard can wrestspiritual energy out of those places of power and useit to aid the Lhiannan. A word of caution, however:stealing too much power from any mystical site rendersit barren and lifeless, much as if the Cainite had consumed the very blood of the Earth. Also, wizards andwerewolves frequent these same sites, and destroyingthese places can rouse their ire.System: The player rolls Perception + Occult (difficulty 8). One success determines if a given locationis a suitable site (a decision generally left in the Storyteller’s hands, though a Lhiannan with a high DomainBackground may have such a site within her holdings).Two or more successes on this roll grants a rough ideaof the site’s power on a scale of 1 to 5. If the characterwishes to tap the power of that location, she must spenda scene and one blood point marking various parts ofthe site with sigils of power, keys for her spirit-shard tounlock the location’s energies.Once the site is prepared, the player makes a second,reflexive Perception + Occult roll (difficulty 7). Anysuccesses beyond the site’s power rating are ignored.For each success, the player gains two dice, which shemay add to any dice pools (except those to avoid frenzyor Rötschreck) for the remainder of the scene. Thesedice are gone when used, but the character may tap thesame location again from turn to turn. The player mustmake the Perception + Occult roll each time. Each“drink” of the site’s energies depletes it, however, asdescribed below. The Lhiannan’s spirit-shard is a greedy thing, wearing as it does the garb of a Cainite’s Beast, and drinksthe site’s energies recklessly. A Lhiannan can only garner a number of successes equal to 10 times the site’spower rating, after which point the area turns into abarren wasteland, incapable of sustaining life. This sortof activity in particular is certain to attract the attention of Lupines or wizards. A site may replenish itselfover a period of years. However, a site that is tappedwith Drink Dry the Earth at any point during the yearis unable to replenish lost dice at all that year, and ifthe site is completely drained, it is irrevocably dead.
	6: Inscribe the Forgotten Names
	*When the Lhiannan reaches this level of Ogham,she reverses the relationship between herself and herspirit-shard and can dominate and extract information from it. The Lhiannan’s ancient spirit knows thenames of many mythical beings, and it can be bludgeoned into giving the Lhiannan one of those namesso that she may invoke such a creature. These beingsare dangerous, and not to be trifled with. Many are ona par with Methuselahs.Inscribe the Forgotten Names allows its wielder tocommunicate with the being she summons, but it doesnot give her domination or control over that creature.She must appease it in whatever manner she can, andhope that it does not take offense at being called up.System: The player spends three blood points. TheLhiannan must spend one half hour undisturbed asblood oozes from her skin to sate the spirit-shard’shunger. At the end of this time, the player rolls Intelligence + Occult (difficulty 9, or 8 if the characterhas summoned this particular being before). If the rollsucceeds, a powerful creature arrives in the immediatevicinity before the end of the current scene.The Storyteller is free to assign game statistics to anycreature summoned. Such creatures have their owndesires and demands, and many do not take kindly tobeing called.

--Sanguinus
	*Sanguinus is the unwholesome Discipline grantedto the Blood Brothers by the Tzimisce who createdthem. A curious relative of Vicissitude, Sanguinus allows vampires who practice it to combine parts of theirbodies, loan them out to others, and coordinate theirminds and appendages. Even low levels of it are unsettling to watch. Use of the higher levels is disgusting,indeed, as flesh parts and exposed organs, atrophied bythe Blood Brothers’ state of undeath, merge and pulse.Mortals observing the spectacle of this Discipline’smore obvious powers must make Courage rolls (difficulty 4), spend a point of Willpower, or flee the areain nausea.
	1:Brother’s Blood
	*A circle of Blood Brothers is closer than any Sabbat pack, any blood-bound pair of vampiric lovers,any ghoul family. The circle shares flesh, mind, and,of course, blood. The members of the circle can spendblood to heal each other’s bodies, no matter how farapart they are.System: The player spends a blood point, which maybe used to heal any member of the circle, regardless ofdistance from the character. The Blood Brother mayalso “bank” blood, spending five points to heal another’s aggravated wound over the course of several turns.This power takes effect automatically; no roll is necessary. Blood spent by another Frankenstein does notcount against the maximum amount of vitae the targetcharacter can spend per turn.
	2:Octopod
	*The Blood Brother circle can donate limbs and organs to one another. This isn’t meant for healing after the battle, but for use during the battle. An opponent facing down the Blood Brothers might see one ofhis opponents grow a second set of legs (making himnearly impossible to knock down), another pair of arms(meaning he can block or parry almost any incomingattack), extra eyes for 360 degree vision, or an extramouth for an greater blood consumption. Of course,the Frankenstein that gives up the organ might be lefta limbless, eyeless, mouthless lump of flesh on the sideof the battlefield, but the Blood Brothers never seemto mind that.System: The “donor” player spends a blood point foreach limb or organ he wishes to loan to the other circlemember. (Only the donor needs to have this level ofmastery of Sanguinus; the recipient may be any othermember of the donor’s circle.) The loaned organs appear at the end of that turn, in whatever location therecipient wishes — eyes on the back of heads or on theends of hands have been seen, as have entire heads located between a Blood Brother’s legs. Use of this powerdoes not impart any extra attacks, but it may allow foradditional sensory input, more blood to be consumed in a single turn, or extra hands to hold weapons or pindown foes. Only external organs may be loaned in thismanner — hearts, stomachs, and brains cannot.
	3:Gestalt
	*Blood Brothers share a hive-mind; this ability wasone of the guiding principles behind their creation.The Gestalt power is that hive-mind, the ability of theFrankensteins to coordinate silently and perfectly inbattle, to avoid mind-controlling powers, and to actin unison.System: This power confers several benefits on theBlood Brothers. For this power to work, however, everyBlood Brother in the circle must spend a blood point.If even one member cannot or will not spend a bloodpoint, this power fails. Once a Blood Brother has metthe Final Death, he is no longer a part of the circle, sothe power continues to function among the still-undead members of the group. Gestalt lasts for one scene.While this power is active:• Dominate, Presence, and the like take effectagainst the highest Willpower rating in the circle. Forexample, if a vampire attempts to Dominate a BloodBrother under the influence of Gestalt, she must rollagainst the highest Willpower rating any of the vampires in the circle possesses, even if her subject has thelowest Willpower rating in the circle. Additionally, aBlood Brother affected by powers in this manner dropsout of the Gestalt, though Gestalt remains active forothers. This mental “fuse” was supposedly created toprevent the entire circle from being Dominated by avampire looking into the eyes of one Blood Brother.• Perception difficulties for all Blood Brothers in thecircle decrease by three, as they share the sensory inputof other vampires in the circle.• By taking no action other than concentrating, aBlood Brother may “loan” an Ability to another brother. For example, a wounded vampire with Melee 4 maystep out of combat and loan a circle-mate with Melee2 his mastery of that Skill. The “borrowing” vampiremakes Ability checks against the loaned Trait as if itwere his own.• The Blood Brothers in the Gestalt may communicate through telepathy, allowing them to coordinateactions. In game terms, only one initiative roll is madefor the circle, based on the character with the highestinitiative rating (see p. 271).Not all Blood Brothers in the circle need to havethis level of Sanguinus to benefit from the Gestalt. If a given character does not know this power, though,the player rolls Wits + Occult (difficulty 7) when thepower is enacted. If this roll fails, the character canstill receive loaned Abilities, but gains no other benefits from the Gestalt.
	4:Walk of Caine
	*The sorcerous theory behind the Blood Brothersreads like a philosophical treatise on the nature of individuality, free will, and hematology. The Frankensteins are not a group of vampires but are one vampirein several bodies, or so goes the theory. As such, anyof their characteristics must be viewed as a continuum— they are not individually Twelfth, Eleventh, andThirteenth Generation, for example, but they are collectively Ninth Generation at any given time. Whilethe metaphysics of this kind of thinking makes mostvampires’ heads ache, there seems to be something toit. A Blood Brother can draw strength from his circle,lowering his Generation to allow for greater feats ofvitae expenditure.System: Each member of the circle can “donate” onestep in Generation. In the example listed above, thevampire of Eleventh Generation could take one stepfrom his two circle-mates and drop to Ninth, but thevampire of Thirteenth Generation couldn’t drop lowerthan Eleventh. No matter how big the circle, no BloodBrother can drop to an effective Generation lowerthan Fourth. Likewise, a Thirteenth Generation BloodBrother can drop to an effective Generation of Fourteenth, which carries with it the penalties listed for theFourteenth Generation Flaw (p. 481). (He cannot goto Fifteenth Generation, however.)As with Gestalt, only one Blood Brother needs toknow this power in order to begin the process. Anythat don’t have Walk of Caine need to make a Stamina+ Awareness roll (difficulty 7). If this roll fails, theymay not participate in the action.
	5:Coagulated Entity
	*The Blood Brothers merge into a fleshy, bleedingmound of horror. This juggernaut surges forward, crushing and consuming anything in its path. The Sabbathas learned to its chagrin that if the Blood Brothers arenot explicitly told to separate after using this power,they won’t. This merger is, apparently, what the BloodBrothers truly want.System: Every vampire in the circle who wishes tobecome part of the Coagulated Entity spends three blood points. Three turns after the process begins, themonster is complete and able to act. The vampire ofthe lowest Generation who is part of the constructguides the creature’s actions. The actual Generation ofthe creature itself, however, is the highest Generationof any vampire present in the construct, less one foreach additional vampire present in the construct. (Using the previous example, the Eleventh-Generationvampire would be the guide but the highest Generation is 13, so the overall Entity would be 13 minus 2, orEleventh Generation.)The creature’s Strength, Stamina, and Perceptionare equal to the guide’s, with a +1 for every additionalvampire contained within. (Generational limits do notapply to this creature — through sheer size, a Coagulated Entity may have a Strength of 7 or more.) Allphysical actions undertaken by the monstrosity gainone extra die to the pool for each vampire beyondthe first present in the construct (before splitting dicepools).Only one vampire in the circle needs to possess Sanguinus at Level Five for this power to work. Body partstend to shift during the creation of a Coagulated Entity — fanged maws at the ends of hands and eyes atopfleshy stalks have been reported by terrified survivors.Storytellers should feel free to give any bonuses (orpenalties) to the construct as they see fit.A Coagulated Entity may not be staked, as it hastoo many hearts in unconventional places for any butthe blindest luck to impale. It has a vampire’s normalseven health levels, plus two for each additional vampire who becomes part of the entity (treat these extrahealth levels as Bruised). The entity remains congealedfor one scene, unless the Storyteller wishes to rule thatno one told the Blood Brothers to separate.

--Spiritus
	*The Discipline of Spiritus opens the vampire up toworlds and vistas — and methods of feeding — thatmost Kindred can never touch. Vampires are spiritually dead, unable to create life. The shamanic ritualthat created the Ahrimanes, though, allowed a spiritual connection between the undead and the vast, livingworld all around them. While the vampire can barelyscratch the surface of what living shamans can accomplish, the Discipline of Spiritus is still formidable.
	1:Aid from Spirits
	*Spirits are everywhere, but invisible to most living(and unliving) beings. This power allows the vampireto briefly rouse the spirit of an object, making that object perform its intended function better and more efficiently. It in no way makes the spirit well-disposedtoward the vampire — not that this usually matters tothe Ahrimane.System: The character touches the object, and theplayer spends a blood point and rolls Manipulation + Occult (difficulty 6). If the roll succeeds, the player receives abonus to her dice pool using that item, equal to the number of successes rolled. For example, if the character usesthis power on a gun and the player rolls three successes,she then receives a +3 to her next Firearms roll made withthat gun. Unused bonuses fade at the end of the scene,and multiple uses of this power do not combine (the mostrecent use trumps any previous uses). The character can,however, use the power on multiple objects she uses inthe same scene, so long as she has the blood for it.
	2:Summon Spirit Beasts
	*The vampire might not fully understand the link between “animal” and “animal-spirit,” but spirits of aggressive animals are usually more than willing to takeon a physical body and fight for the vampire. Spirits ofcurious animals, meanwhile, seem to enjoy unlockingdoors or following people. With this power, the Ahrimane can summon up the spirit of an animal indigenousto the area and send it to do what comes naturally.The spirit assumes the corporeal form of the appropriate animal, and is capable of whatever the animalwould normally be able to do. The animal can followsimple telepathic commands, and is slightly more intelligent than a normal animal would be (but still notas intelligent as a person).System: The animal summoned must be native tothe area — just because the local zoo hosts a tigerdoesn’t mean there are tiger-spirits running about. Theplayer must spend one blood point and roll Charisma+ Animal Ken (difficulty 7). The number of successesindicates how long the spirit remains material. Thespirits have the same number of health levels theirphysical counterparts would normally have (see p. 388for some sample animals traits). If they are reduced toIncapacitated, they discorporate.
		@1 Success		One Turn
		@2 Successes		Five Turns
		@3 Successes		One Hour
		@4 Successes		One Night
		@5 Successes		One Week
	3:Aspect of the Beast
	*Instead of calling up animal spirits, the vampirelearns to emulate aspects of those spirits herself. In thisway, she can become faster, stronger, tougher, or gainthe special powers of nearly any animal, provided thatthe spirit is local to the area.System: The player spends a blood point and rollsManipulation + Occult (difficulty 7). The power lastsfor one turn per success, unless otherwise noted. Someexamples of aspects are given below, though the playerand Storyteller are welcome to make up others:Beaver’s Bite — This makes the Ahrimane’s bitestrong and sharp enough to cut through almost anysubstance (though it does no additional damage to living or unliving targets).Chameleon’s Colors — The Ahrimane becomes capable of changing color to suit the environment (-2difficulties to all Stealth rolls involving hiding).Ears of the Hare — The Ahrimane can hear as wellas a rabbit, reducing the difficulty of Perception rollsinvolving hearing by two.Falcon’s Eye — The Ahrimane can see great distances as if she had the eyes of a falcon (-3 to all Perceptionrolls involving vision).Ferocity of the Cougar — All Courage rolls are madeat -2 difficulty.Leapfrog — This grants the Ahrimane the ability toleap three times the normal height and distance. (Seep. 260 for jumping rules.)Nose of the Hound — The Ahrimane’s sense of smellis far greater than that of a mortal. She can even trackby scent with on a Perception + Survival roll (difficultyset by Storyteller).Serpent’s Venom — The Ahrimane’s bite transmitsa venomous toxin that causes two health levels ofdamage in living victims per turn (see “Poisons andDrugs,” p. 301). The damage continues until the toxinis removed or nullified, or until the Ahrimane’s spiritpower ends.Sound of the Cricket — This grants the power to produce an annoying, grating sound loud enough to deafenthose nearby. The target suffers a +4 to all Perception rolls related to hearing for the next scene unless he succeeds on a Willpower roll (difficulty 7).Squirrel’s Balance — The Ahrimane can move aboutin the branches and limbs of trees or across tightropeswith little fear of falling. All such Athletics rolls havetheir difficulties decreased by two.Strength of the Bear — This gives the Ahrimane twoextra dots of Strength.Swiftness of the Stag — The Ahrimane can move attwice her normal running speed.
	4:Engling Fury
	*Spirits abound — supposedly everything, from one’sshirt to the very air, has one. The Ahrimane can takethose spirits into herself, break them down, and refreshher own mental reserves. This destroys the spirit, butno repercussions have been reported.System: The player rolls Manipulation + Intimidation (difficulty 8). Every success allows her to regain apoint of Willpower, but each use of this power destroysanother spirit.
	5:The Wild Beast
	*The Ahrimane grows leaner, lithe, and strong. Shehunches over slightly, her eyes become slitted and catlike, and she grows vicious claws on her hands. Herfeatures become slightly feline, and in this form she isan even more formidable predator than usual. Animalsreact with fear to the Wild Beast, and mortals see heras a monster — if they see her at all.System: The change does not require a roll, butthe player must spend two blood points. The changeraises the vampire’s Strength by three, and Dexterityand Stamina each by two. Appearance falls to 0 andManipulation is reduced by three. The vampire’s fangsinflict an extra die of damage, and she grows claws thatinflict aggravated damage. The character can see in thedark, and all difficulties involving scent, hearing, andvision fall by two. The character can retain the WildBeast form for a number of hours every night equal toher Willpower rating.

--Temporis
	*The True Brujah bloodline claims a peculiar Discipline that allows them some control over the flow oftime. Masters of Temporis often grow ever more detached from the passage of ages. This, combined withthe natural tendency for Sages to grow emotionally and spiritually distant, makes True Brujah elders exceptionally dangerous. They know that all life is finite,and so they feel no compunction about ending it.
	1:Hourglass of the Mind
	*Masters of Temporis value patience and clarity. Timeis too complex and dangerous to manipulate incautiously or on a whim. Thus, the first power of Temporisfocuses entirely on perception and serves as a permanent alteration of a vampire’s senses.System: Once purchased, this Discipline gives avampire a perfect sense of time. The vampire knowsevents to the nearest second or better. Moreover, theCainite knows whenever the flow of time is mysticallydisturbed by use of Celerity, greater levels of Temporis, mortal wizardry, or stranger things. Sensing disturbances is instinctive and reflexive, though it requiresa successful Perception + Awareness roll (difficulty 6for most phenomena, as modified by the Storyteller fordistance and intensity).
	2:Recurring Contemplation
	*A vampire with this power may trap a target’s mindinto reviewing a set of events over and over until interrupted. This power is extremely subtle and ill-suitedto combat or other situations rich in sensory stimuli.However, a cunning vampire can trick a sentry intoreliving the tedium of his uneventful watch even asthe Cainite draws close enough to strike or slip past.Other uses include the maddening infliction of déjàvu to induce paranoia or make a victim question hersenses and her sanity.System: The vampire concentrates on a single victim in his line of sight. The player rolls Manipulation + Occult (difficulty equal to the victim’s currentWillpower). With any successes, the victim falls intoa light trance and relives the most recent experiencesthat preceded her fugue. Alternately, the vampire mayevoke another set of specific memories and circumstances from the victim’s past, provided that he hassome means of telepathically drawing them forth. Therecurring events must be relatively benign, insofar asnothing noteworthy happens or nothing happens thatwould demand the victim’s immediate action. Thus, inthe example of the sentry, the vampire could entrancehim and walk past unobserved, but not if the sentryspotted him before invoking the power. Ordinarily,the fugue lasts one minute per success. If the vampire’splayer spends a blood point to fuel this power, determine the trance’s duration according to the followingchart:
		@1 success		one minute
		@2 successes		10 minutes
		@3 successes		one hour
		@4 successes		six hours
		@5+ successes 		one day
	**Entranced victims are oblivious to their surroundingsand the actual flow of time around them. However, thefugue ends immediately if the victim suffers any damage or experiences a sudden jolt to her senses, such as athunderclap or even a gentle nudge. Normal conversation does not break the trance, although shouting does.
	3:Leaden Moment
	*With this power, a vampire may begin to alter the flowof time itself rather than mere perception of events. Thevampire gestures and slows the desired object almost toa dead stop. This power can slow incoming bullets tothe pace of drifting clouds, or cause an enemy warrior tosee the battlefield quicken to a blur of dizzying carnageeven as his every motion slows to a crawl.System: The player spends one blood point and rollsIntelligence + Occult. The difficulty depends on thesize and nature of the target: a single thrown brick isonly difficulty 4, while a crazed ghoul has a difficultyof 9. Targets larger than an adult human cannot beaffected with Leaden Moment. It is possible to affectsmall, closely grouped inanimate objects of the samenature as a single object, though this increases the difficulty by two or more at the Storyteller’s discretion (ahail of bullets might be difficulty 9). This power maybe activated reflexively as a defensive action againstprojectiles, but otherwise requires a full action on thevampire’s initiative. Though failure carries no specialpenalty apart from wasting blood, a botch means thevampire mistakenly slows himself rather than the target, counting every 1 as a success for that purpose.If the vampire succeeds, the object slows to one-half itstrue speed. Every two successes beyond the first reducethis speed by one additional factor, so three successesslows the target to one third its speed, five successesyields quarter speed, etc. The actual mechanics of suchslowing depend on the situation. For projectiles, multiply any successes to hit and final damage by the speedfactor, rounded down. Similarly apply the speed modifier to the successes of other actions involving Dexterity, Wits, or Strength for slowed characters. Characterswith Celerity may spend one blood point to negate onefactor of speed reduction at the expense of the usual extra action provided – for example, one blood pointcancels a reduction to one half speed, two blood pointscancel one third, etc. Leaden Moment lasts one turn forevery two successes rolled, rounded up.
	4:Patience of the Norns
	*The vampire can now suspend an inanimate object intime, keeping it frozen in perfect stasis as time passes atnormal speed around it. As with lesser Temporis powers, this stasis has both combat and non-combat applications. True Brujah warriors may halt bullets outrightrather than merely slowing their approach or casuallysidestep a collapsing building. Higher-level variationson this power preserve precious scrolls and artifactswithout risk of mold or decay. If any solid object ornontrivial volume of liquid touches a frozen object thatdid not touch it at the moment of suspension, the itemre-enters time with the same properties and velocityas when it stopped. Thus, touching a suspended objectwith anything more substantial than a raindrop releases it exactly as it was before it stopped.System: The player spends two blood points and rollsIntelligence + Occult (difficulty 6). The vampire mustbe able to perceive the object that he’s suspending, sothe player may need to make a Perception + Alertnessroll at a difficulty determined by the Storyteller in order to freeze fast-moving objects. If an object exceedsthe speed of mortal perception, superhuman perception such as Auspex is required in order to see and stopit (as such, bullets can be stopped with this power, butonly if the vampire has at least a dot of Auspex). Objects frozen by this power remain halted according tothe number of successes rolled:
		@1 success		one turn
		@2 successes		one minute
		@3 successes		10 minutes
		@4 successes		one hour
		@5 successes		one day
		@6+ successes 		one week per success over 5
	**Suspended objects retain all energy in their suspension, releasing none to the outside universe. A suspended knife has no kinetic energy as far as the rest ofthe world is concerned and hangs suspended in mid-airuntil the power is interrupted or the duration expires.Suspended alchemical or chemical processes also halt,including fire. However, any physical contact more substantial than a falling raindrop breaks the suspension.
	5:Clotho’s Gift
	*With this power, a vampire momentarily acceleratestime through himself. In this brief instant, he moveswith the preternatural speed of Celerity. Unlike thatDiscipline, however, the time dilation of Clotho’s Giftpermits any type of action. A vampire may still moveor strike faster than the eye can see, but also think,plan, and even invoke other Disciplines that requirefull concentration. Only the last presents a danger, asit overtaxes the vampire’s unliving stasis.System: The player spends three blood points androlls Intelligence + Occult (difficulty 7). For a numberof turns equal to half the vampire’s Temporis rating,rounded up, the character may take a number of extra actions at her full dice pool equal to the numberof successes rolled. These actions follow the timingrules associated with Celerity, but may be used to takeany action. A vampire may use the actions granted byClotho’s Gift to activate Disciplines multiple times,even Disciplines that cannot be used more than oncein a turn (such as Dominate or Thaumaturgy). However, for every action spent activating a Discipline, thevampire suffers one level of unsoakable lethal damage.Only one important exception exists: Any attempt tostack extra actions through Celerity, subsequent applications of Clotho’s Gift or other powers results in immediate Final Death, as the vampire collapses into ashas though burned by the sun.
	6: Kiss of Lachesis
	*True Brujah with this power gain limited masteryover the physical age of objects and individuals. Itis a trivial matter to accelerate time in a compressedrush, aging a target decades or even centuries in theblink of an eye. It is far more difficult to absorb andunweave entropy, lessening time’s hold. This powerdoes not reverse history in any way; it merely reversesor accelerates the effects of time in terms of wear andtear. Moreover, a target cannot regress to an earlier orincomplete state of being. For inanimate objects, thisis the point at which they were assembled. For livingbeings, it is either adult maturity or the time of birth(or its equivalent). For the undead and other corpses,it is the moment of death.System: In order for the vampire to age a target, theplayer spends two blood points and rolls Manipulation+ Occult. The difficulty equals the target’s true physical age in decades or effective physical age in the caseof target’s that have aged unnaturally, such as by meansof this power. This difficulty cannot rise higher than 10 or drop below 4. The vampire touches the target andconcentrates for a turn. The Cainite may age the targeta maximum number of years as determined by the following table, although his player may choose to applya lesser effect. The Storyteller remains the final arbiterof time’s effect on an object, but living beings aged pasttheir natural lifespan quickly perish.
		@1 success		up to one year
		@2 successes		up to five years
		@3 successes		up to 10 years
		@4 successes		up to 50 years
		@5 successes		up to 100 years
		@6+ successes 		up to one century per success over 5
	**Removing the effects of time requires greater effort,increasing the difficulty of the activation roll by one.In addition, the vampire suffers one level of unsoakable lethal damage for every success her player choosesto apply. As noted, objects cannot return to an earlieror incomplete state. A silver coin may lose its tarnishand seem newly minted, but it will not revert to anunformed block of metal. Likewise, while an adult mayrevert to the cusp of his adulthood or a child to a newborn, neither could regress to a prenatal state. Also,this power only accounts for damage and wear due totime. A child amputee reverted to a baby will not regenerate her missing arm, nor will a broken sword become anything but finely crafted shards.In either application, this power does not change asubject’s mental or mystical properties. Sentient beingsretain all memories and any derangements. A vampireregressed to the point of death remains a vampire, notan inanimate corpse — and the regressed Cainite stillremembers all Disciplines and keeps any changes inGeneration due to diablerie. However, a vampire agedfar enough pales considerably or loses any signs of diablerie from his aura.
	7: Cheat the Fates
	*Where a vampire with Clotho’s Gift may acceleratewith respect to the world, a vampire with this powermay step outside of time entirely. During this brief sojourn, the Cainite perceives the world frozen at a standstill. He can walk about at a leisurely pace to sidestepblows or retreat without being observed. He may evenexert force, such as by striking a blow, though no damage is resolved until he re-enters time. However, thispower wreaks terrible destruction on a vampire’s unliving body. Used incautiously, a vampire may saunter outof time, only to fall to ash when he returns.System: The player spends one Willpower point andthree blood points, and then rolls Wits + Occult (difficulty 7). This power may be activated reflexively asa defensive action; however, such hasty use reducesthe maximum duration to a single turn. Failure doesnothing apart from wasting effort and blood, while abotch inflicts one level of aggravated damage for every1 rolled.If successful, the vampire steps out of time for a number of turns equal to the successes rolled (outside ofcombat, a turn still only lasts three to five seconds forthe purposes of this power). These turns occur for thevampire only while the rest of the world stands still.He may take any action or actions during this time,as many as desired, but he has no access to Disciplines— even innate or perpetual Disciplines such as Potence. The vampire must direct every aspect of Caine’sCurse toward holding back time. If the vampire attackssomeone in this state, the target cannot dodge or parry.Resolve the attack normally but do not apply damage.However, if the vampire suffers injury, such as by exposure to sunlight or walking through a frozen flame,apply this damage immediately.The vampire may end his sojourn at any point or waituntil the full duration of the power passes, at whichpoint time resumes. Before anything else happens, including resolution of damage inflicted by the vampire,roll one die for every turn the vampire moved out oftime. The difficulty is equal to the vampire’s Temporisrating. For every success, the Cainite suffers one levelof unsoakable aggravated damage. Apply this damageconcurrently with damage suffered by halted victimsand continue play on the same turn and initiative thevampire stepped out of time.
	8: Clio’s Kiss
	*One of the most subtle manifestations of Temporis’higher levels, this power allows a vampire to reach intothe past and summon events, objects, or even individuals. Clio’s Kiss, named for the muse of history, is thepower to bypass the flow of time and bring something— or someone — forward to the present. Some TrueBrujah scholars use this to observe history as it trulyoccurred, while others look to the past for aid or toretrieve lost possessions. At least two coordinated attempts by the True Brujah to summon their Antediluvian progenitor have met with catastrophic failure. No one knows if a Sage capable of this power remains.The hope is that Clio’s Kiss faded from knowledge —the bloodline cannot afford a third attempt.System: The player spends half of the character’scurrent blood pool, rounded up, and rolls Stamina +Occult (difficulty 8). This power automatically failsif the player spends fewer than five blood points. Thenumber of successes determines the maximum amountof time through which the character may reach:
		@1 success		24 hours
		@2 successes		one month
		@3 successes		one year
		@4 successes		10 years
		@5+ successes 		one century per success over 4
	**When a vampire uses this power successfully, thescene she seeks to retrieve materializes around her,briefly supplanting the current environment. Thischange extends to a maximum volume of a ballroom orsimilarly proportioned outdoor space (at Storyteller’sdiscretion). The power affects everyone inside this areaby granting them awareness of the summoned events,but the vampire is the only person who may choose tointeract with the scene (though he may remain invisible and disembodied). All others must remain incorporeal observers until time reasserts itself and the scenefades. They may move about to change their vantagepoint, but can take no other action.If the vampire wants to remove an object or individual from the scene, bringing them forward to the present,the player must spend a dot of Willpower. Once this isdone, the conjured scene fades away and present realityreturns. Only the summoned object or person remains.This power can never alter the course of history inany significant manner. Should an object or personhave a meaningful role yet to play at the time it is removed, the weight of time crashes upon the vampireand he vanishes in its current. Whether such folly results in destruction or propels the vampire far into thefuture remains unknown and likely unknowable. Likewise, any changes the vampire makes to a summonedscene unravel as soon as he departs. Like a play, timemay be altered by the removal of extras, but the scriptstays the same — however cruel a fate, Carthage mustbe destroyed.As always, the Storyteller remains the final judgeof what this power can achieve and need not reveal all limitations until a vampire attempts a change. Itis possible to summon a person from a point close tohis death, assuming he perished without observers.Likewise, a manuscript destroyed when the Library ofAlexandria burned can be called after it is last read.Calling the very library from Alexandria would be impossible, not only for its size but also the necessity andsignificance of its ruins. Finally, the previous form of acurrently existing object cannot be summoned, if onlybecause its continued existence validates a role in history. Storytellers need not consider every ramificationof paradox, but this power has tremendous potentialfor abuse and should be adjudicated accordingly.
	9: Tangle Atropos’ Hand
	*This manifestation of Temporis is at once the mostflagrant and subtle twist of time — the power of secondchances. The existence of such power is only a theoryand a fearfully whispered rumor, for who can ever knowwhen or how time itself unraveled and changed?System: The player spends a dot of Willpower andthree blood points and rolls Wits + Occult (difficulty8). Every additional point of permanent Willpowerspent beyond the first adds one automatic success tothe roll. Use of this power is reflexive and may be doneat any moment, even on a turn in which the vampirehas used other Disciplines. If successful, the Cainite’smind flashes back to his earlier self with full memory ofthe events that transpired and now only might transpire.This rewind encompasses one turn for every successrolled, and inflicts an equal number of levels of unsoakable aggravated damage. Assuming the vampire doesnothing, every event plays out exactly as before. Oncethe vampire takes a new action of any sort, time shiftsto encompass a new future and fate is no longer fixed.

--Thanatosis
	*This Discipline is an exclusive development of theSamedi bloodline, and it is tied intrinsically to theStiffs’ identity and history. Although Thanatosis appears to deal closely with death and the energies ofdecay, no Giovanni have ever claimed mastery of thispower. Outsiders assume the Giovanni must be interested in learning this Discipline. However, the Giovanni view the Samedi with distrust and loathing,while the Samedi take on the Giovanni is usually expressed by muttering a curse on the Clan and spittingblood. Thus, the possibility of an exchange of information approaches nil.
	1:Hag’s Wrinkles
	*Perpetual rot makes the character’s flesh malleable.The Samedi can open large folds in her flesh, storingobjects in them like a kangaroo’s pouch. She can alsomassage the slimy flaps of fatty tissue to alter her appearance slightly (though this does nothing for thesmell). Other Kindred can learn this Discipline, ofcourse, but if they do not possess the “advantage” ofhaving skin that already falls in droops and folds, largewrinkles and bulges may be visible.System: This power requires one turn to shape thewrinkles and the expenditure of a blood point. If thepower is used to distort a character’s features, theSamedi player must roll Stamina + Subterfuge (difficulty 8). Success raises the difficulty to visually identifythe character by one and lasts for one hour per successrolled. If the character is attempting to hide a smallobject (a wallet, a letter, a small pistol), the roll andduration are the same, but all rolls made to see if theobject is detected (for example, a pat-down search or asecurity guard’s visual inspection) are at +2 difficulty.
	2:Putrefaction
	*The character can, with a touch, inflict decay upona target. Hair falls out, teeth loosen, flesh rots and fungus grows on the skin. This power works on targets living and undead, and is obviously quite unsettling bothphysically and psychologically.System: This power first requires that the charactertouch his intended target. The player then rolls Dexterity + Medicine (difficulty of the target’s Stamina +Fortitude) and spends a blood point. Success inflictsone health level of lethal damage on the target andremoves one point of the victim’s Appearance. ThisAppearance loss returns to vampires at the rate of onepoint per night, but is permanent for mortals (thoughplastic surgery can correct mortals’ physical disfigurement). If a mortal suffers three or more health levels ofdamage from repeated uses of this power in one scene,gangrene or other ailments may occur.Putrefaction can also be used on plants, in whichcase the target becomes blighted and withered. It cannot, however, be used on inanimate objects such ascars or wooden stakes.
	3:Ashes to Ashes
	*The character collapses into a thick, sticky whitepowder. While in this form, the character cannot moveand is only dimly aware of her surroundings, but is immune to fire and sunlight (meaning that this power is an effective escape in some situations). The charactermust take care, though — if the ashes are scattered, shemight never be able to reform.System: The transformation to ashes requires oneturn and the expenditure of two blood points. Whilethe character is in ash form, the player must make aPerception + Alertness roll (difficulty 9) for any scenein which she wishes her character to be aware of hersurroundings. Reforming from the heap of ashes takesone turn. If the character is in a confined space (suchas an urn), she explodes from it in a suitably dramaticmanner as she brings herself back to full size. If a Samedi is scattered while in this form, one health level andone blood point are lost for each tenth (roughly) of thecharacter that has been dissipated. Five blood pointsare required to heal each health level lost in this manner. At the Storyteller’s discretion, the Samedi may bemissing limbs or vital organs (though never the head orthe heart) until the missing health levels are healed.
	4:Withering
	*The Stiff can shrivel and render useless an opponent’s limb. This power works on Kindred as well asmortals. Kindred, of course, are horrified by the power,as they tend to think of their bodies as immortal andinvulnerable to such ravages.System: The Samedi must touch the limb he intendsto shrivel. The player spends a Willpower point androlls Manipulation + Medicine (difficulty equal to thevictim’s Stamina + Fortitude). Three successes are required for this power to shrink a limb. With one or twosuccesses, the victim takes one health level of bashingdamage, which may be soaked normally, but is otherwise unaffected. (If the Withering attempt is successful, the subject suffers no health level of damage, butrather the withering of the limb itself.)The effects of Withering fade after one night if a vampire or other supernatural creature is the victim, but mortals (including mages) are permanently afflicted unlesssome type of supernatural healing is used. If this poweris used on an arm or leg, the limb instantly becomes useless. If this power is used on an opponent’s head, mortalvictims die instantly. Kindred lose two points from allMental Attributes while their heads are shrunken andare unable to use any Disciplines except Celerity, Fortitude, and Potence. Multiple uses of this power on thesame appendage have no additional effect.
	5:Necrosis
	*A more horrific and potent form of Putrefaction, thispower causes flesh to decay and slough off, exposingthe bone beneath. Use of this power can render an opponent unable to move from lack of muscle tissue. System: The Samedi must make contact with thevictim. The player spends two blood points and rollsDexterity + Medicine (difficulty of the target’s Stamina+ Fortitude). The victim takes a number of health levels of lethal damage equal to the number of successesrolled and suffers additional effects as listed below.
		@1 success		No additional effects
		@2 successes		Lose one point of Appearance
		@3 successes		Lose a point each of Appearance andDexterity
		@4 successes		Lose a point each of Appearance,Dexterity, and Strength
		@5+ successes 		Lose two points of Appearance and one each of Dexterity and Strength
	**Attributes lost in this manner are regained when alldamage from the Necrosis attack is healed. If a victimis reduced to zero Strength or Dexterity, he is unableto move except for weak flailing and crawling but maystill use Disciplines and spend blood points normally.
	6: Creeping Infection
	*Rumors state that Samedi, especially elders, are infectious, that their presence or touch causes a wasting disease. This power might be the source of theserumors. Creeping Infection allows the Samedi to usePutrefaction, Withering, or Necrosis, but prevent theDiscipline from taking effect until the Samedi is wellaway. This power allows for subtle curses, or insuranceagainst someone who might hire the Samedi and thenrefuse to pay up.System: The player must successfully roll for a useof Putrefaction, Withering, or Necrosis, as above, andmay delay the effect for a number of months equal tothe Samedi’s Stamina. The player may spend a bloodpoint at any time during this period in order to activatethe dormant power. If the Creeping Infection is notused before the end of its duration, it fades away withno effect.
	7: Dust to Dust
	*With this power, the Samedi retains cohesion, awareness, and mobility while in ash form. While not as impressive as the Tzimisce Horrid Form, a clever Stiff canfind many tactical uses for such a power. System: While a pile of ash, the Samedi remains fullyconscious and may use any Discipline powers that beinga pile of dust would permit (for instance, Majesty willmake the pile of dust very impressive, and no maid inher right mind would dare sweep it up). The charactercannot be blown apart by high winds, and any deliberate attempt to separate the pile of ash may be resisted with a die pool equaling the character’s combinedStrength, Stamina, Potence, and Fortitude. The character may move voluntarily at a speed no higher thanthat at which a pile of normal dust would be blown bythe wind, even if he is indoors. He does not have tomove in the direction of the prevailing air currents, andmay “flatten” himself by spreading his ashes thinly soas to slip under doors and through cracks. This powerfunctions like Ashes to Ashes in all other respects.
	8: Putrescent Servitude
	*The practice of creating zombified servants is an oldone in vodoun, though most powerful Samedi can perform feats of reanimation that put the finest hounganto shame. The Stiff can raise a recently dead person asan undead servant. The zombie can’t think critically ormove faster than a quick walk, but it is tough, strong,and unquestioningly loyal.System: The first application of this power allowsthe Samedi to feed some of her blood to a recently deadcorpse (maximum time since death equal to the Samedi’s Stamina in weeks) in order to animate it. Threeblood points must be spent to bring the corpse back toa semblance of life. A reanimated corpse has the samePhysical Attributes as it did in life. It is capable of limited reasoning (reduce all Mental Attributes by one),but free thought is beyond it and the only person it canclearly understand is its master or an individual whoits master has directed it to obey. Reanimated corpsespossess two levels of Fortitude and three extra healthlevels. They suffer no dice pool penalties from woundsuntil they lose their last health level, at which pointthey collapse and cannot be reanimated again.A reanimated corpse crumbles to dust at the thirdsunrise after its creation. Its “lifespan” can be extendedby feeding it more blood at creation — one blood pointper extra night.This power can also be used on a mortal. The Samedicreates a ghoul in the normal fashion, by feeding thesubject one blood point. The player then rolls Manipulation + Medicine (difficulty equal to the mortal’s permanent Willpower). Three or more successes are requiredto turn the mortal into a zombie. If this roll succeeds,the mortal loses all free will, becoming completely subjugated to the Samedi’s command. The mortal may tryto break free once per night by rolling his Willpower(difficulty equal to the Samedi’s Manipulation + Leadership). If the mortal frees himself, he is still considereda ghoul but regains his free will and normal Mental andSocial Attributes (see below). A mortal who botcheshis Willpower roll or who becomes blood-bound to theSamedi may never again attempt to break free. A mortal under the influence of Putrescent Servitudebecomes pale and corpselike. He loses one point fromall Social and Mental Attributes (to a minimum valueof one). He gains three extra health levels and takesno dice pool penalties from injuries until he reachesIncapacitated, at which point he collapses. One morelethal wound will kill him once he reaches this point.The mortal also gains one level of Potence, as a normalghoul would, and has the potential to learn other Disciplines if the Samedi feels inclined to teach him. A ghoul zombie who goes a month without vampiric blood loses all benefits of being a ghoul, as wouldnormally occur. He also loses all effects of this powerand regains his free will, though he may still be bloodbound to his master.

--Valeren
	*Valeren is a warrior’s Discipline, a holdover from thenights when warrior Salubri acted as noble fighters andKindred knights. The Discipline is still applicable tothe modern nights, but the Salubri antitribu put it todecidedly more vicious ends.Like Obeah, Valeren imparts its practitioners withthe fabled third eye of Saulot. The third eye appears atthe time the vampire masters the second level of Valeren. The precise nature and purpose of the eye are allbut unknown to vampires outside the Salubri antitribu.Some suspect the eye grants them sight beyond sight,while others venture that the eye allows them to see theinfernal taint in the non-Sabbat Salubri themselves.
	1:Sense Vitality
	*A healer learns a subject’s illnesses to cure them. TheSalubri antitribu, however, learn how close to death atarget is so that they may hasten the process. System: This power works identically to the Obeahpower of the same name (p. 457).
	2:Anesthetic Touch
	*The Salubri antitribu can ameliorate a subject’s pain,allowing him to bolster a ghoul’s effectiveness in combat. This power can also put a mortal to sleep, whichhas obvious applications for escaping human scrutiny(though the Fury is probably just as likely to kill themortal in question).System: This power works identically to the Obeahpower of the same name (p. 458).
	3:Burning Touch
	*The character’s hands bring searing pain, as thoughthe target is being burnt with red-hot metal. Althoughthe power does not inflict actual damage, prolongedor repeated exposure can be enough to traumatize avictim. This power works extremely well as a torturemethod. System: The vampire must touch his subject for thispower to take effect, and the effects diminish rapidlyafter he removes his hand. The player spends at leastone blood point to activate this power, and each bloodpoint spent reduces the victim’s dice pools by two whilethe Fury is in contact with the victim. This power isoften used for interrogation or torture, wearing downthe subject’s resistance and rendering him much moretractable.
	4:Armor of Caine’s Fury
	*The Salubri antitribu is surrounded by a shining,crimson halo. This phantom armor protects the vampire against most physical injury, as well as againstRötschreck.System: The player spends one blood point and rollsStamina + Melee (difficulty 7). For each success, thecharacter gains one point of armor protection againstbashing and lethal damage, to a maximum of five pointsof protection. Additionally, for every two successesrolled, she gains an additional die to resist Rötschreckfrom the effects of battle (but not fire or sunlight). Thispower works for one scene.
	5:Vengeance of Samiel
	*The Salubri antitribu strikes his foe with superhuman accuracy and strength, as his third eye opens andchanges to a furious, icy blue. Some Furies invoke thenames of ancient Salubri warriors, while others simply close their normal eyes and let Samiel guide theirhands. System: This power costs three blood points. Anysingle attack made by the vampire automatically hits the target as mystic forces guide the blow. Attacksmade in this manner may not be dodged, though theymay be blocked, parried, and soaked as normal. Theblow strikes as if the Salubri antitribu had succeededwith all of his Dexterity + Melee or Brawling dice pool(which makes for significant damage). This power maybe used only once per turn, and only then the Salubriantitribu’s sole action is the attack. Additionally, thispower does not work for ranged weapons; only barehands or melee weapons.
	6: Blissful Agony
	*The vampire may cause pain with a mere touch, asper Burning Touch, but this pain lingers and swellseven after the Fury has removed her hand. It is believed that this power was originally used to acclimatewarrior Salubri to the pain they would experience inbattle, but among the Sabbat Salubri, Blissful Agonyhas been turned to more brutal uses. If applied withenough intensity, Blissful Agony can drive vampires tothe point of frenzy, incapacitate Lupines, and even killmortals outright.System: The player makes a Willpower roll (difficulty 8) and spends a blood point. The power lasts for onescene, though this duration may be prolonged if theSalubri antitribu wishes by making a subsequent Willpower roll (though no additional blood points need bespent). The character must touch her subject for thepower to take effect initially.At the vampire’s option, she may cause actual physical damage to the victim at the rate of one health levelper blood point spent, though touch must be maintained for this to happen. Damage to vampires andother supernatural creatures in this fashion vanishes atthe next sunset, but mortals must heal the damage normally. This damage is considered lethal damage, andmortals may not soak it (though vampires and othersupernatural entities may).To induce frenzy in a victim, the Fury must causedamage in excess of the subject’s Willpower. At thatpoint, the subject must make a Willpower roll (difficulty 6) or succumb to frenzy.

--Visceratika
	*Visceratika is an extension of the Gargoyles’ naturalaffinity for stone and earth. Certain Visceratika powers closely resemble some aspects of Protean and, toa lesser extent, Vicissitude. Tremere in a position to know insist that this is pure coincidence, but the fewamong the Gargoyles who retain scholarly aspirationsinsist that the Gangrel and Tzimisce blood used to create the bloodline still maintains a certain hold over itsmembers.For many years, Visceratika was regarded as endemicto the Gargoyle condition, just like the repulsive visageand the wings with which other Kindred associate thebloodline. That is, vampires — including the Tremere— believed that they couldn’t have the one withoutthe others. Supposedly this isn’t true, and provided onecan find a Gargoyle tutor, any vampire can learn theDiscipline. Of course, that assumes one can find a willing tutor — the Gargoyles aren’t eager to reveal thesesecrets. Furthermore, few Kindred want to bet that theTremere are wrong and risk waking up with wings andhorns.
	1:Skin of the Chameleon
	*This basic power has saved countless Gargoylesbreaching the Masquerade — and has allowed just asmany to ambush unsuspecting intruders. When Skinof the Chameleon is in effect, the Gargoyle’s skin takeson the color and texture of the surrounding environment. This coloration changes reflexively as long asthe Gargoyle maintains a walking pace or slower. Morerapid movement causes the Gargoyle’s appearance toblur, negating the camouflaging effect. If this power isused while the Gargoyle is in flight, his skin becomesa reasonable facsimile of the night sky (though it willnot shift to mimic nearby skyscrapers or star patterns,and a black silhouette against a brightly lit skyline islikely to be noticed).System: The player spends one blood point. For therest of the scene, the Gargoyle’s Stealth dice pool is increased by five. This power is subject to the limitationsdescribed above. Any ground movement faster than awalk negates this power’s effect, as does flight (at theStoryteller’s discretion).
	2:Scry the Hearthstone
	*The Gargoyles’ first function for the Tremere wasthat of guardian and watchdog. This power allowsthem to know instinctively where anyone is inside agiven structure. It even allows the Gargoyle to detectcharacters concealed by magical means, if the Slave isperceptive enough.System: The player spends a Willpower point to activate this power, which remains in effect as long as theGargoyle is within or in contact with the target structure, or until the next sunset. Scry the Hearthstone maybe used on anything up to the size of a cave complex, alarge theatre, a parking garage, or a mansion. The character gains an innate sense of the location and approximate size and physical condition of all living (or unliving) beings within the structure. To pinpoint a specificindividual’s location with this power, the player mustsucceed in a Perception + Awareness roll (difficulty 6).If the subject is attempting to hide, he may oppose thisroll with a roll of Wits + Stealth (difficulty 6).Scry the Hearthstone may be used to detect the presence of characters who are under Obfuscate or similar powers. In this case, the Gargoyle only knows thatthere is someone present — she cannot actually see theindividual in question. To determine the Gargoyle’sability to detect Obfuscated characters, compare therelative levels of the Gargoyle’s Visceratika minus oneand the intruder’s Obfuscate as per the “Seeing theUnseen” sidebar on p. 142.
	3:Bond with the Mountain
	*The Gargoyle sinks into a stone surface, disappearing into the rock until he wishes to reappear. Thispower allowed Gargoyles to invade their masters’ enemies’ strongholds, fight until sunrise, then meld withthe rocks or stone walls and reappear the next evening.In modern nights, it can take the place of a haven foritinerant Runaways. Unlike the Earth Meld power(p. 199) which it resembles, Bond with the Mountaindoes not conceal the Gargoyle completely. A faint outline of his body can be seen in the rock where he hides.System: The player spends two blood points, and themerge takes four turns to complete. This power functions in a fashion similar to the Protean 3 power ofEarth Meld, and may only be performed upon bare rockor a similar substance. However, the Gargoyle does notsink fully into the substance with which he merges,and his outline can be detected within the stone witha successful Perception + Alertness roll (difficulty 9).A Gargoyle attacked while Bonded with the Mountain has triple his normal soak dice pool against allforms of attack. However, if he sustains three or morelethal health levels of damage from a single attack, heis forced out of his bond and suffers disorientation similar to that experienced by an Earth Melded characterwhose slumber is interrupted.
	4:Armor of Terra
	*At this level of Visceratika, the Gargoyle’s skinhardens and becomes truly rock-like to the touch. TheSlave becomes harder to harm, even with fire, andgrows inured to injury. A non-Gargoyle learning thislevel of Visceratika would find her skin becoming grayand rock-like, putting lie to the claim that the Discipline doesn’t carry the risk of the Gargoyle’s curse.System: This power is automatic and requires no roll;it is always in effect. A vampire with Armor of Terrahas one extra soak die for all aggravated and lethal attacks and two for all bashing attacks, reduces all woundpenalties by one, and halves the damage dice pool ofany fire-based source of injury (this Discipline does notchange the rules for Rötschreck, however). The difficulty of all touch-based Perception rolls is increased bytwo, due to the desensitization of the character’s skin.
	5:Flow Within the Mountain
	*The Gargoyle is no longer restricted to hiding withinstone. Now, he can flow through stone like lava working its way down a mountainside, emerging from thehiding place at any point he wishes. Since this powerworks on cement or concrete as well as rock, the streetsof a modern metropolis afford a Gargoyle some veryinteresting assassination tools.System: Once the character has used Bond with theMountain, the player spends two more blood points toactivate Flow Within the Mountain for the durationof the scene. The Gargoyle can move within stoneand cement (otherwise using the same rules as theProtean power Earth Control, p. 200). The charactercan also use this power to walk through a stone walland emerge on the other side without first using Bondwith the Mountain. In this case, the player spends oneblood point and rolls Strength (difficulty 8; Potenceadds dice or successes normally). The Gargoyle mayflow through a maximum thickness in feet equal to thenumber of successes rolled, or 30 times the number ofsuccesses rolled in centimeters. If the wall or barrier isthicker than this, the character is trapped within it until he is chiseled out or uses Flow Within the Mountainto escape.



#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
#### Disciplines complexes

----Necromancy
	*Necromancy is both a Discipline and a school ofblood magic devoted to the command of the souls of thedead. It’s similar to Thaumaturgy in that it has several“paths” and accompanying “rituals” rather than a strictlinear progression of powers. The study of Necromancyis not widespread among the Kindred, and its practitioners — primarily the Giovanni — are shunned anddespised for their foul practices (until those practicesbecome useful, of course).Over the centuries, the various schools of vampiricNecromancy have evolved and diversified from an earlier form of death magic, leaving several distinct pathsof necromantic magic available to Cainites. Nearly allmodern necromancers learn the Sepulchre Path firstbefore extending their studies to other paths. The primary Necromancy path increases automatically as thecharacter increases her overall Necromancy rating.Other paths must be bought separately, using the experience costs for secondary paths. Like Thaumaturgy, Necromancy has also spawned aseries of rituals. While not nearly so immediate in effect as the basic powers of Necromancy, Necromanticrituals can have impressive long-term effects. Unsurprisingly, the elements of Necromantic ritual are thingslike long-buried corpses and hands from the cadaversof hanged men, so obtaining suitable materials can bequite difficult.System: A Cainite necromancer must learn at leastthree levels in his primary path before learning his firstlevel in a secondary Necromancy path. He must thenmaster the primary path (all five levels) before acquiring any knowledge of a third path.As with Thaumaturgy, advancement in the primarypath costs the normal experience amount, while studyof additional Necromantic paths incurs an additionalexperience-point cost (see p. 124). Because Necromancyis not quite so rigid a study as Thaumaturgy is, the rollsrequired to use Necromantic powers can vary from pathto path and even within individual paths. The commonly-learned Sepulchre Path is presented first, with the remaining paths presented in alphabetical order.Statistics for ghosts may be found in Chapter Nine,p. 385.

---The Sepulchre Path
	*Through the Sepulchre path, the vampire can witness, summon, and command the spirits of the dead.At higher levels, the necromancer can force the ghostto remain in a particular place or object, or even damage wraiths directly. Since many other areas of Necromancy involve dealing with ghosts, this is the mostcommon path for necromancers to start with.Note: If a Kindred uses a Sepulchre Path power inthe presence of something of great importance to theghost the power affects, the chances for success in thesummoning increase dramatically (reduce the difficultyby 2). This might be the bathtub in which the ghost’smortal body was drowned, the rusted-out wreck of thecar where the ghost’s physical body was trapped alive,or something unrelated to the ghost’s demise, such as afavorite book or a child-ghost’s beloved nursery.
	1:Witness of Death
	*Before it is possible to control the dead, one mustperceive them. This power allows just that, attuninga vampire’s unliving senses to the presence of the incorporeal.
	2:Summon Soul
	*The power of Summon Soul allows a necromancer tocall a ghost back from the Underworld, for conversational purposes only. In order to perform this feat (andindeed, most of the feats in this path), the vampiremust meet certain conditions:• The necromancer must know the name of thewraith in question, though an image of the wraith obtained via Witness of Death (see above), Shroudsight(see p. 163), Auspex, or other supernatural perceptionwill suffice.• An object with which the wraith had some contactin life must be in the vicinity, though it need not besomething of significant importance to the ghost’s living consciousness. A piece of the ghost’s corpse workswell for this purpose (and even provides a -1 difficultymodifier).Certain types of ghosts cannot be summoned withthis power. Vampires who achieved Golconda beforetheir Final Deaths, or who were diablerized, are beyondthe reach of this summons. Likewise, many ghosts ofthe dead cannot be called — they are destroyed, unable to return to the mortal plane, or lost in the eternalstorm of the Underworld.
	**Under its effects, a necromancer sees ghosts as translucent phantoms gliding among the living and hearstheir whispers and moans. She feels the spectral coldof their touch and smells their musty hint of decay. Yetone cannot mistake the dead for the living, as they lacktrue substance, and appear dimmer and less real thancreatures of flesh and blood. When a vampire uses thispower, her eyes flicker with pale blue fire that only thedead can see.Ghosts resent being spied upon, and more powerfulshades may use their own powers to inflict their displeasure on the incautious.System: The player rolls Perception + Awareness(difficulty 5). Success allows the vampire to perceiveghosts as described for the rest of the scene (in themortal world — seeing ghosts in the land of the deadrequires Shroudsight, on p. 163). Failure has no specialeffect, but a botch means the vampire can see only thedead for the scene; everything else appears as shapeless,dim shadows. While the vampire’s other senses remainattuned to the living, he is all but blind in this stateand suffers a +3 difficulty to most vision-based Perception rolls and attacks. Ghosts notice the glowing eyesof a vampire using this power only with a successfulPerception + Alertness roll (difficulty 7).
	**System: The player spends one blood point and rollsManipulation + Occult (difficulty equal to 7 or theghost’s Willpower, whichever is higher). The vampiremust know the name of the ghost and have on hand anobject the ghost had contact with in life. Provided thatthe target has died and become a ghost, success meansthe shade appears before the necromancer as describedabove. Not everyone becomes a ghost — it requires astrong will to persevere in the face of death, and soulsthat have found peace pass on to their eternal rewards.Moreover, it is possible for the dead to suffer spiritualdissolution and destruction after they become ghosts.The Storyteller should consider all these factors whendeciding whether a particular ghost exists for a vampireto summon.Vampires know if their summons should have succeeded by a feeling of sudden, terrifying descent as theyreach too far into the great Beyond, so this power canbe used to determine whether a soul has endured beyond death. While a failure means the vampire wastesblood, a botch calls a spirit other than the one sought— usually a malevolent ghost known as a Spectre (seep. 385). Such a fiend torments the one who summonedit with every wicked power at its disposal.Once a ghost is summoned, it may not deliberatelymove out of sight of the vampire, though it can takeany other actions, including direct attack. The vampire’s player may spend a Willpower point to dismissthe ghost at any time (unless he rolled a botch). Otherwise, at the end of the scene, shadows engulf the spiritonce more and return it to its original location.
	3:Compel Soul
	*With this power, a vampire can command a ghost todo his bidding for a while. Compulsion of the soul is aperilous undertaking and, when used improperly, canendanger vampire and wraith alike.System: The vampire locates and approaches the intended ghost or calls it to his presence with SummonSoul. As with the previous power, he must have theghost’s name and an object it handled in life. His playerthen spends one blood point and rolls Manipulation +Occult in a resisted roll against the ghost’s Willpower(difficulty 6 for both rolls).If the vampire wins, the number of net successes determines the degree of control he has over the ghost(as described below). Moreover, the vampire’s controlkeeps ghosts that have been called with Summon Soulfrom returning to their original locations at the end ofthe scene. If the ghost wins, the vampire loses a number of Willpower points equal to the ghost’s net successes.On a tie, the roll becomes an extended contest thatcontinues each turn until one side wins. If the vampirebotches at any point, the ghost is immune to any useof the vampire’s Necromancy for the rest of the scene.If the ghost botches, it must obey as if the vampire’splayer had rolled five net successes.
		@1 success		The ghost must perform one simpletask for the vampire that does notplace it in certain danger. It mustattend to this task immediately,although it can delay thecompulsion and pursue its ownbusiness at a cost of one Willpowerpoint per scene. The ghost may notattack the vampire until this task iscomplete. It is possible to issue thetask of answering one question, inwhich case the ghost must answertruthfully and to the best ofits knowledge.
		@2 successes		The vampire may issue two ordersor ask two questions as outlined forone success. Alternatively, thevampire may demand a simple taskwith a real possibility of danger, aslong as the danger is not certain. Theghost may delay this compulsion withWillpower.
		@3 successes		The vampire may issue three ordersas outlined for one success.Alternatively, he may demand theghost fulfill one difficult anddangerous task or a simple assignmentthat has an extended duration of upto one month. The ghost may delaysuch orders with Willpower.
		@4 successes		The vampire may issue four orders,as outlined for one success, orassign two tasks, as for two successes.Alternatively, the vampire maycommand the ghost to perform onecomplex assignment that puts theghost at extreme risk, or perform anynumber of non-threatening tasksas the vampire’s slave for up to onemonth (or, if the necromancer spendsa permanent point of Willpower, for
		@5+ successes		The vampire may issue multiple orders that have a sum complexityor danger of five successes’ worth.Instead, the vampire may order theghost to perform any one action thatit is capable of executing within onemonth. Such a task can place theghost in immediate peril ofdestruction, or even force it to betrayand assault loved ones. It is notpossible for ghosts to delay a task ofthis magnitude with Willpower —they must obey. a year and a day). It is possible for ghosts to delay individual tasks, butnot put off enslavement.
	4:Haunting
	*Haunting binds a summoned ghost to a particularlocation or, in extreme cases, an object. The wraithcannot leave the area to which the necromancer bindsit without risking destruction.System: The player spends one blood point whilestanding at the location for the haunting or touchingthe intended prison. She then has the ghost brought toher by whatever means she desires, though SummonSoul is quickest and most reliable. Her player thenrolls Manipulation + Occult (difficulty is equal to thetarget’s current Willpower points if resisted, to a minimum of 4; otherwise it is 4). The difficulty rises by oneif the vampire wishes to place the ghost in an object.As usual, the difficulty decreases by one if the necromancer has a part of the spirit’s corpse in addition toknowing its name (minimum difficulty 3).Each success binds the ghost within the location orobject for one night. This duration extends to one weekif the player spends a Willpower point or a year and aday for a dot of permanent Willpower. A wraith attempting to leave the area of a haunting must make anextended Willpower roll (difficulty 9, four cumulativesuccesses necessary in a single scene) or take a level ofaggravated damage for each roll. If the wraith runs outof health levels, it is hurled deep into the Underworldto face destruction.
	5:Torment
	*It is through the use of this power that powerful necromancers convince bound ghosts to behave — or else. Torment allows the vampire to strike a wraith as if hehimself were in the lands of the dead, inflicting damage on the wraith’s ectoplasmic form. The vampireremains in the real world, however, so he cannot bestruck in return.System: The player rolls Stamina + Empathy (difficulty equal to the wraith’s current Willpower points),and the vampire reaches out to strike the wraith. Eachsuccess inflicts a level of lethal damage on the wraith.Should the wraith lose all health levels, it immediatelyvanishes into what appears to be a doorway to somehideous nightmare realm. Ghosts “destroyed” thus cannot reappear in or near the real world for a month.

--The Ash Path
	*The Ash Path allows necromancers to peer into thelands of the dead, and even affect things there. Of thepaths of Necromancy, the Ash Path is the most perilous to learn, because many of the path’s uses increase anecromancer’s vulnerability to wraiths.
	1:Shroudsight
	*Shroudsight allows a necromancer to see through theShroud, the mystical barrier that separates the livingworld from the Underworld. By using this power, thevampire can spot ghostly buildings and items, the landscape of the so-called Shadowlands, and even wraithsthemselves. However, an observant wraith may noticewhen a vampire suddenly starts staring at him, whichcan lead to unpleasant consequences.System: A simple roll of Perception + Awareness(difficulty 7) allows a necromancer to utilize Shroudsight. The effects last for a scene.
	2:Lifeless Tongues
	*Where Shroudsight allows a necromancer to seeghosts, Lifeless Tongues allows her to converse withthem effortlessly. Once Lifeless Tongues is employed,the vampire can carry on a conversation with the denizens of the ghostly Underworld without spending bloodor causing the wraiths to expend any effort.System: To use Lifeless Tongues requires a roll ofPerception + Occult (difficulty 6) and the expenditureof a Willpower point.
	3:Dead Hand
	*Similar to the Sepulchre Path power Torment, DeadHand allows a necromancer to reach across the Shroudand affect a ghostly object as if it were in the real world.Ghosts are solid to necromancers using this power, and can be attacked. Furthermore, the necromancercan pick up ghostly items, scale ghostly architecture(giving real-world bystanders the impression that he’sclimbing on air!), and generally exist in two worlds.On the other hand, a necromancer using Dead Hand isquite solid to the residents of the Underworld — andto whatever hostilities they might have.System: The player spends a point of Willpower andmakes a successful Wits + Occult roll (difficulty 7) toactivate Dead Hand for one scene. For each additionalscene the vampire wishes to remain in contact withthe Underworld, he must spend a point of blood.
	4:Ex Nihilo
	*Ex Nihilo allows a necromancer to enter the Underworld physically. While in the lands of the dead,the vampire is essentially a particularly solid ghost. Hemaintains his normal number of health levels, but canbe hurt only by things that inflict aggravated damageon ghosts (weapons forged from souls, certain ghostlypowers, etc.). A vampire physically in the Underworldcan pass through solid objects in the real world (at thecost of one health level) and remain “incorporeal” fora number of turns equal to her Stamina rating. On theother hand, vampires present in the Underworld aresubject to all of the Underworld’s perils, including ultimate destruction. A vampire killed in the realm of thedead is gone forever, beyond even the reach of othernecromancers.System: Using Ex Nihilo takes a tremendous toll onthe necromancer. To activate this power, the vampiremust first draw a doorway with chalk or blood on anyavailable surface. (The vampire may draw doors aheadof time for exactly this purpose.) The player must thenexpend two points of Willpower and two points ofblood before making a Stamina + Occult roll (difficulty 8) as the vampire attempts to open the chalk doorphysically. If the roll succeeds, the door opens and thevampire steps through into the Underworld.When the vampire wishes to return to the real world,he merely needs to concentrate (and the player spendsanother Willpower point and rolls Stamina + Occult,difficulty 6). At Storyteller discretion, a vampire whois too deeply immersed in the Underworld may needto journey to a place close to the lands of the living inorder to cross over. Vampires who wander too far intothe lands of the dead may be trapped there forever.Vampires in the Underworld cannot feed uponghosts without the use of another power; their onlysustenance is the blood they bring with them.
	5:Shroud Mastery
	*Shroud Mastery offers the Kindred the ability tomanipulate the veil between the worlds of the livingand the dead. By doing so, a necromancer can makeit easier for bound wraiths in his service to function,or make it nearly impossible for ghosts to contact thematerial world.System: To exercise Shroud Mastery, the necromancer expends two points of Willpower, then stateswhether he is attempting to raise or lower the Shroud.The player then makes a Willpower roll (difficulty 9).Each success on the roll raises or lowers the difficultiesof all nearby wraiths’ attempts to cross the Shroud inany way by one, to a maximum of 10 or a minimum of3. The Shroud reverts to its normal strength at a rate ofone point per hour thereafter.

--The Bone Path
	*The Bone Path is concerned primarily with corpsesand the methods by which dead souls can be restoredto the living world — temporarily or otherwise.
	1:Tremens
	*Tremens allows a necromancer to make the flesh of acorpse shift once. An arm might suddenly flop forward,a cadaver might sit up, or dead eyes might abruptlyopen. This sort of thing tends to have an impressiveimpact on people who aren’t expecting a departed relative to roll over in his coffin.System: To use Tremens, the necromancer spendsa single blood point, and the player must succeed ona Dexterity + Occult roll (difficulty 6). The more successes that are achieved, the more complicated an action can be effected in the corpse. One success allowsfor an instantaneous movement, such as a twitch, whilefive allow the vampire to set up specific conditions under which the body animates (“The next time someoneenters the room, I want the corpse to sit up and openits eyes.”). Under no circumstances can Tremens causea dead body to attack or cause damage.
	2:Apprentice’s Brooms
	*With Apprentice’s Brooms, the necromancer canmake a dead body rise and perform a simple function.For example, the corpse could be set to carrying heavyobjects, digging, or just shambling from place to place.The cadavers thus animated do not attack or defendthemselves if interfered with, but instead attempt tocarry out their given instructions until such time asthey’ve been rendered inanimate. Generally it takes dismemberment, flame, or something similar to destroya corpse animated in this way.
	**System: A roll of Wits + Occult (difficulty 7) andthe expenditure of a point of both blood and Willpower are all that is necessary to animate corpses withApprentice’s Brooms. The number of corpses animatedis equal to the number of successes achieved. The necromancer must then state the task to which he is setting his zombies. The cadavers turn themselves to theirwork until they finish the job (at which point they collapse) or something (including time) destroys them.Corpses animated in this way have no initiative oftheir own, and are unable to make value judgments.They respond to very literal instruction. Thus, a zombie could be told “sweep this room every day until allthe dust and cobwebs are gone” or “transcribe thismanuscript” with an expectation of reasonable results,while a more open-ended command such as “fix thismotorcycle” or “research this Necromantic ritual andwrite down the results” would be doomed to failure.Bodies energized by this power continue to decay, albeit at a much slower rate than normal.
	3:Shambling Hordes
	*Shambling Hordes creates obvious results: reanimated corpses with the ability to attack, albeit neither verywell nor very quickly. Once primed by this power, thecorpses wait — for years, if necessary — to fulfill thecommand given them. The orders might be to protecta certain site or simply to attack immediately, but theywill be carried out until every last one of the decomposing monsters is destroyed.
	**System: The player spends a point of Willpower.The player then must succeed on a Wits + Occult roll(difficulty 8). Each success allows the vampire to raiseanother corpse from the grave, and costs one bloodpoint. If the player cannot or chooses not to pay theblood point cost of additional zombies past a certainnumber, the extra successes are simply lost. Each zombie can follow one simple instruction, such as “Stayhere and guard this graveyard against any intruders,”or “Kill them!”Note: Zombies created by Shambling Hordes willwait forever if need be to fulfill their functions. Longafter the flesh has rotted off their mystically animatedbones, the zombies will wait and wait and wait, stillable to perform their duties.
	4:Soul Stealing
	*This power affects the living, not the dead. It does,however, temporarily turn a living soul into a sort ofwraith, as it allows a necromancer to strip a soul froma living body. A mortal exiled from his body by thispower becomes a wraith with a single tie to the realworld: his now-empty body.
	**System: The player spends a point of Willpowerand then makes a contested Willpower roll againstthe intended victim (difficulty 6). Successes indicatethe number of hours during which the original soul isforced out of its housing. The body itself remains autonomically alive but catatonic.This power can be used to create suitable hosts forDaemonic Possession. It has no effect on Kindred orother supernatural creatures (except ghouls) until suchcreatures are dead – in the case of vampires, this meansFinal Death.
	5:Daemonic Possession
	*Daemonic Possession lets a vampire insert a soul intoa freshly dead body. This does not turn the reanimatedcorpse into anything other than a reanimated corpse,one that will irrevocably decay after a week, but it does give either a wraith or a free-floating soul (say, that ofa vampire using Psychic Projection) a temporary homein the physical world.
	**System: The body in question must be no more than30 minutes dead, and the new tenant must agree to inhabit it — a ghost or astral form cannot be forced into anew shell. However, most ghosts would gladly seize theopportunity. Should the vampire, for whatever reason,wish to insert a soul into another vampire’s corpse (before it crumbles to ash), the necromancer must achievefive successes on a resisted Willpower roll against theoriginal owner of the body. Otherwise, the interloperis denied entrance.Note: The soul can use whatever physical abilities(Athletics, Brawl, Potence) his new fleshy home possesses, and whatever mental abilities (Computer, Law,Presence) he already possessed. He cannot use thephysical abilities of his old form, or the mental abilitiesof his new one.

--The Cenotaph Path
	*Practitioners of the Cenotaph Path are primarilyconcerned with discovering or forging links betweenthe living world and the Shadowlands. It functionson the principle that a Kindred, already a corpse, isan unnatural bridge between the living and the dead,and the necromancer can use this to find other, similarlinkages. The basic rudiments of the Cenotaph Pathfunction easily enough once the Kindred learns to attune himself to these connections. Advanced masteryof the path usually entails some brief ritual to forge artificial connections, either through focusing unsavorypassions or commanding this world and the Shadowlands together.
	1:A Touch of Death
	*Just as a necromancer may exert mastery over theShadowlands, so too can some ghosts exert themselves in the mortal world. Whereas obvious displaysof ghostly power such as bleeding walls or disembodiedmoans certainly won’t be mistaken, some ghostly abilities exert subtle effects that aren’t easily recognized.A necromancer sensitized to the residue of the dead,though, can feel whether an object has been touchedby a ghost or sense the recent passage of a wraith.System: The necromancer simply touches a person orobject that he suspects is a victim of ghostly influence.The player rolls Perception + Awareness (difficulty 6).If successful, the necromancer can determine whether a ghost has exerted any sort of power on the subject, oreven crossed nearby, to the duration detailed below.
		@1 success		Last turn; detect use of ghostly powers
		@2 successes		Last three turns; detect use of ghostlypowers
		@3 successes		Last hour; detect ghost’s touch anduse of ghostly powers
		@4 successes		Last day; detect ghost’s touch and useof ghostly powers
		@5 successes		Last week; detect nearby passage ofghost, ghost’s touch, and use ofghostly powers
	**On a failure, the necromancer receives no impressions. A botch reveals a misleading answer (an objectmay seem tinged with ghostly power when it’s not, orvice versa). Should the necromancer succeed in detection while touching an object or person that a ghostis possessing, he immediately becomes aware that theghost is still inside. The impression gained in such acase is sufficient to count as an image of the spirit forpurposes of the Sepulchre Path’s powers, so the Kindred may be able to (for example) immediately command a ghost to exit a person whom it possesses.
	2:Reveal the Catene
	*Necromantic compulsions function much more effectively when the caster uses an object of significanceto the ghost in question. Such fetters tie the dead tothe living lands through their remembered importance— a favored recliner for relaxing, a reviled piece of artfoisted off by hated relatives, or some object of similarlyintense emotion. Many necromancers can detect suchcatene through the use of rituals (see Ritual of the Unearthed Fetter, p. 181). With this power, though, thenecromancer can determine a fetter with just a few moments of handling. The Kindred simply runs his handsover the object and concentrates on it. He quicklyreceives an impression of the item’s (or person’s) importance to wraiths, if any; should the wraith be oneknown to the necromancer, he immediately recognizesthe object as a fetter to that (or those) ghost(s). Successful identification of a connected ghost is not exclusive; that is, if the vampire determines that the objectis important to a given wraith, he can also determine ifthere are other ghosts tied to the item, though he mustuse the power again to gain their identities.
	**Many necromancers use this power on objects already identified with A Touch of Death, in order todetermine whether the ghost is trying to attune a givenfetter or simply toying with the world of the living.
	**System: The necromancer holds and examines theobject for at least three turns — if it’s an item, thismeans turning it over in his hands, running his fingers along it, or otherwise giving it a critical eye; witha person, this may require a more… invasive… examination. The player then spends a blood point androlls Perception + Occult (difficulty 7). If successful,the Kindred determines whether the object holds anysignificance to any ghost and, with three or more successes, the identity of at least one such ghost (whichallows the Kindred to use the Sepulchre Path on thatwraith, if desired). If the necromancer already knowsany of the ghosts involved, their ties are revealed withtheir identity — so, if the necromancer already knowsa wraith well enough to summon and compel it withother powers, successful identification of a fetter tellswhether the object is tied to that ghost, in addition toany other impressions gained.
	**If a botch is scored, the necromancer can never successfully use this power on the item being examined.
	3:Tread Upon the Grave
	*The extended awareness granted with the CenotaphPath allows the necromancer to find locations wherethe Shadowlands and the living world come close.Often, the necromancer experiences a chill or shiverwhen stepping into an area where the Underworld liesnear the living one. With practice, the vampire cantell exactly where such locations are.Experienced necromancers learn that certain locations are susceptible to ghostly influence; these haunted areas often become homes of a sort for ghosts. Aknowledgeable vampire can thus discover places wherethe dead are likely to congregate, the better to snarethem with other Necromancy powers.System: The player simply declares intent to sensethe Shroud in an area and makes a Willpower roll(difficulty 8). Success reveals whether the location ishighly attuned to the Shadowlands, about average (notparticularly close to the world of the dead), or far removed from the realm of death. A failing attempt atusing the power has no adverse effect, though it maybe attempted only once per scene (so the necromancermust either wait for a time or move to a different areabefore attempting Tread Upon the Grave once more). A botch stuns the necromancer into inaction for a fullturn and costs him a temporary Willpower point, as heis overcome by shivers and a sense of overwhelmingdespair. With three or more successes, the necromancer candetermine whether the Shroud’s strength has been artificially altered in the area.
	4:Death Knell
	*Not all who die go on to become ghosts — manylack the drive to hang on after death or simply have nooverwhelming needs that compel them to stick around.Normally, even necromancers have no way to sortthose who might become ghosts from the masses whogo on to whatever rewards await. Over time, though, anecromancer can become sensitized to the pull that occurs when a soul escapes from a body only to hover inwait, enslaved by its desires. The weight of desperationbecomes like a tangible tug, and some necromancerssavor this emotion even as they follow the sensation tofind the new ghost.Of course, actually discovering the new ghost can beproblematic. The Kindred may need some means to seethrough the Shroud or may have to send other wraithsto look for the new unfortunate, especially if a largeaccident or massacre leaves too many corpses for thenecromancer to easily discern and test names.System: Whenever someone dies and becomes aghost within a half-mile or kilometer of the necromancer, she automatically senses the demise (though manychoose to ignore this “always-on” power unless activelyseeking someone). This power does not automaticallypinpoint the location of the new ghost or identify it,but the player may spend one Willpower point and rollPerception + Occult (difficulty 7) for the necromancerto gain a vague sense of the distance and direction tothe new wraith. With one success, the Kindred maysense a vague pull in a general direction; with threesuccesses, the necromancer can sense the direction andguess distance to within a quarter-mile or half a kilometer. With five successes, the necromancer immediately senses the location of the new ghost to withinone foot or 30 cm. A failure carries no penalty but abotched attempt sends the necromancer scurrying offin the wrong direction.The Storyteller may rule that disturbances in theUnderworld, intervening magic, or other similar phenomena cloud this sensation, simply to prevent overburdening a chronicle with constant ghost-huntingand dice rolling.
	5:Ephemeral Binding
	*The most puissant necromancers learn not only tosense the ties between living and dead, but to forgesuch ties themselves. The master of Ephemeral Binding turns an otherwise mundane object or person into adepository for his own necromantic energy. The undying Curse transforms the subject into a sort of linkagebetween the living and dead. The necromancer smearshis blood on the item in question, which mystically absorbs the vitae and, in doing so, becomes a vessel toanchor a spirit.System: The necromancer must coat an object withhis blood (a full blood point’s worth); if the subject isa person, then that individual must ingest the vitae.The player marks off the blood point, spends a pointof Willpower, and rolls Manipulation + Occult (difficulty 8). If successful, the item temporarily becomesa fetter to one wraith. If the Kindred already knowsthe name of the wraith or has a strong psychic impression, then the object can become a fetter at any range,even to a ghost who normally does not come near theliving world (so long as the ghost still exists). Otherwise, the necromancer must be able to see or sense theghost (with Witness of Death, Shroudsight, or othersuch means).A fetter artificially created in this fashion functionsfor all necromantic and ghostly purposes as a normalfetter: It can be detected with other Necromancy powers, the vampire gains a bonus to Necromancy againstthe wraith attuned to it, and the ghost similarly findsexertion of its powers easier upon the subject (so thevampire might turn an unwitting ghoul into a consortfor a wraith familiar with possession…). The ghost cansink into the fetter to heal; conversely, if the fetter isdestroyed, the wraith is banished to some inaccessibleregion of the Underworld, perhaps never to return.A fetter created with Ephemeral Binding lasts forone night per success scored. The expenditure of an additional point of Willpower increases this duration toa week per success, whereas spending a permanent dotof Willpower extends the duration to a year and a day.Botching with this power not only causes failure butalso makes the ghost immediately aware of what thenecromancer was trying to do. Most ghosts do not takekindly to meddling Kindred trying to make artificialchains for them.

--The Corpse in the Monster
	*This path enhances the necromantic understandingof the unliving form and allows the user to fully experience the corpse as a gateway between life and death.The path lets the vampire apply some of a corpse’straits to a vampire, and she can enhance or reducethese traits at various levels of the power.
	1:Masque of Death
	*The character with this ability can assume a visageof death or inflict that shape on another vampire. Thevictim’s flesh becomes pallid and thin (if it is not already), and skin pulls tight against bone. This abilitycan be very useful, as it allows one to hide in plain sightin a tomb or crypt at any time (though the characterremains as vulnerable to sunlight and fire as ever).When a necromancer uses this power on another Kindred, the victim gains the same corpselike demeanor.In this sense, the ability works as something of a minorcurse.
	**System: The player spends one blood point for thecharacter to gain the form described. Those afflicted with the Masque of Death lose two points of Dexterity and Appearance (minimum of 1 in Dexterity and0 in Appearance) for the duration of the power. Theplayer also gets two extra dice to his Intimidation dicepool, should he wish to terrify any onlookers. Further,if the character remains perfectly still, observers mustroll five successes on a Perception + Medicine roll (difficulty 7) to distinguish the character from a normalcorpse. The player doesn’t need to roll anything tohave the character stop moving — vampires have noautonomic functions.If the user inflicts Masque of Death on another vampire, he must spend a blood point, touch the target, andthen make a Stamina + Medicine roll (difficulty equalto the target’s Stamina + 3). The Masque of Death lastsuntil the next sunset, unless the character who createdthe masque wishes to extinguish its effects earlier.
	2:Cold of the Grave
	*The dead feel no pain, though most undead do. Withthis ability, the character can temporarily take on theunfeeling semblance of the dead, in order to protectherself from physical and emotional harm. When assuming the Cold of the Grave, the vampire’s skin becomes unusually cold. When she speaks, her breathmists even in warm air — those with exceptional senses might even see a slight red tinge to the breath.The power brings a sense of lethargy over the character, as a mortal might feel under the influence of amildly unpleasant disease. It becomes difficult to rouseoneself to action, and very little seems importantenough to really worry about. A corpse has no worries,after all.System: The player spends one Willpower point.For the remainder of the scene, the character takes nowound penalties, and the player gains an additional dieto all dice pools that involve resisting emotional manipulation, such as Intimidation or Empathy. However,the player also loses a die from dice pools to emotionally manipulate others. The character is a cold fish tothose she interacts with, and they do not respond readily to her. The Cold of the Grave does not protect thecharacter against the depredations of the Beast. Shemay be emotionally cold on the surface, but if otherstaunt and anger her sufficiently, she is still subject tofrenzy as normal.
	3:Curse of Life
	*The Curse of Life inflicts some of the undesirabletraits of the living upon the undead, removing their corpselike nature and creating a false life to remindthem of the worst things about being alive. Targets ofthis power regain only the unpleasant aspects of life, asculled from the memory of the Discipline’s user. Thismay include mundane hunger and thirst, sweat andother excretions, the need to urinate and defecate, adecrease in sensory acuity, and a particular vulnerability to attacks that the character might normally shrugoff.System: The player spends one Willpower and rollsIntelligence + Medicine (difficulty 8) to affect a targetwithin line of sight and no farther than 20 yards or meters from the character. If the roll succeeds, the targetsuffers the weaknesses of the living without gaining anybenefit from that state. He does not become immuneto sunlight or holy artifacts, for instance. However, hedoes become badly distracted by mundane needs, withthe net result that his player suffers a +2 difficulty penalty to all rolls. He can ignore these distractions at thecost of one Willpower point per scene. Additionally,the victim cannot use blood to raise his Physical Attributes while this power is in effect, and Willpowercannot eliminate this penalty. The power remains ineffect until the next sunset.
	4:Gift of the Corpse
	*This power, one of the most potent on the Corpsein the Monster path, enables a necromancer to ignoremost of her race’s inherent weaknesses for a short time.A dead body is not particularly vulnerable to sunlight,holy artifacts, frenzy, or being staked through the heart,after all, and so it is with a vampire using the Gift ofthe Corpse. As with the Cold of the Grave, above,the character using this power takes on an even moredeathlike mien. It lasts for less than a minute, typically, but that time may be enough to enable a characterto charge through a burning building without fearingfrenzy or instant death.System: The player spends one Willpower and rollsStamina + Occult (difficulty 8). For every success, thecharacter can spend one turn in a state in which he ismore akin to an animated corpse than a vampire. Holyartifacts and sanctified ground have no effect, and thecharacter is immune to frenzy and Rötschreck. Sunlight does only bashing damage, and then only if bareskin is exposed on a clear day. Being staked throughthe heart is only as much of a danger as getting stabbedthrough his dead spleen would be. Fire harms him onlyas it would a mortal — causing lethal damage insteadof aggravated. Should the character end the power’s duration whileexposed to any of the aforementioned harmful things,he immediately takes their full effect. If he is staked, hebecome immobilized; if he is on or near fire, he beginsto take the damage a Cainite should take, and he mustimmediately roll against Rötschreck.
	5:Gift of Life
	*With the Gift of Life, the character can experiencethe best and most positive things about being alive. Theoverwhelming hunger for blood temporarily abates, allowing the character to consume and enjoy food anddrink. She can also enjoy sex as she wishes, and the sundoes not burn her. The Gift of Life comes with a dark,terrible cost, however. Its use is almost sure to result inthe death of a mortal, as the vampire must expend anenormous quantity of vitae in order to initiate it. TheDiscipline’s effects last until the midnight after thecharacter uses the power, so it is in her best interests touse it just after midnight.System: The player spends 12 blood points, burningas much blood as possible each turn until she meetsthat level. She then rolls Stamina + Occult (difficulty6) and needs only one success for the power to work.A botch has catastrophic effects. The character mightbe instantly killed or might inadvertently Embrace hervictim, for example. If it takes longer than one turnto spend the necessary blood to enact this ability, itdoes not take effect until all 12 points have been spent.However, the blood must be spent continuously — thevampire cannot burn five, run off and feed, then burnseven more an hour later. On the other hand, she mayfeed as she activates the power — in one turn she mightburn one blood point while drinking three. Since fewKindred above the Seventh Generation can easily expend such an amount of blood, the most efficient wayto activate this power is to have a human nearby whocan be sacrificed to power the transformation.After her transformation, the character gains manytraits of an ordinary human. She is largely immune tothe scorching effects of the sun (Fortitude difficultiesto soak damage from direct sunlight are halved, andshe takes no damage if she is sufficiently covered), andshe can experience and enjoy many of the fine thingsabout human life. She retains a few of her vampiricbenefits, however. Fortitude and Auspex abilities remain in place if she has either of those Disciplines, andthe Storyteller may allow her to retain other Disciplinesas well if he deems them dramatically appropriate. Shealso retains a vampire’s benefits when it comes to handling bashing damage. However, she is still vulnerable to holy artifacts, human faith, and being staked. Herblood remains vitae, not human blood. Use of this ability — which creates a mockery of human life — mayinterfere with a character’s Path advancement, at theStoryteller’s discretion.The vampire is no more vulnerable to fire than anyother mortal while in this half-alive state, but she stillsuffers somewhat from the Beast. Frenzy and Rötschreckdifficulties are halved (round up). She can remain active during the day without Humanity or Path-baseddice pool caps, although she is certainly tired duringthe day, since that is not her usual time of activity.Her Beast exacts a dangerous retribution when herday of “life” is done. Although its influence is greatlysuppressed during this power’s duration, the Beast hasits way with the vampire for the next six nights, as alldifficulties to resist frenzy increase by three. The wisenecromancer hides herself away somewhere duringthat period, but, depending on morality and temperament, enforced isolation might drive her to frenzy onits own.

--The Grave’s Decay
	*This path is derived from the observation of theworking of time on all things mortal. Stone crumblesand the corpse rots away to nothing, a process of endless fascination to the lost Cainites known as Cappadocians. Indeed, for the undying, the process of decayis a fascinating disease that afflicts everyone and everything save them. Under this path, a practitioner ofNecromancy channels that force.
	1:Destroy the Husk
	*Cainites who kill their victims, rather than just feeding upon them, frequently find themselves in need of aquick way to dispose of a corpse. While there are manyways to make sure that a corpse is not found — feed itto a pack of hounds or weigh it down and throw it in ariver — many of these methods do involve risk to thevampire and are not guaranteed to succeed. Destroythe Husk, by contrast, is foolproof. Use of this powersimply turns one human corpse to a pile of about 30pounds (13 kilograms) of unremarkable dust, roughlythe size and shape of that body.System: The player spends one blood point as thevampire drips her vitae onto the corpse. The playerthen rolls Intelligence + Medicine (difficulty 6). Onesuccess is all that is needed to render the corpse intodust, although the process takes a number of turnsequal to five minus the successes.
	2:Rigor Mortis
	*One of the first changes that comes over a dead bodyis rigidity; the corpse becomes stiff as a board, frozenin a single pose. The Cainite who wields Rigor Mortisis able to push a living or undead body to that frozenpoint using only his will and understanding of the forces of decay. She forces her target to become rigid andunable to move without enormous effort of will, as hisvery muscles betray him.System: The player spends a point of Willpower androlls Intelligence + Medicine (difficulty 7). Each success freezes the target in place for one turn. A failuresimply indicates the loss of the Willpower point, whilea botch renders the target immune to powers in theGrave’s Decay path for the next 24 hours. The targetmust be visible and within about 25 yards or meters forthis ability to take effect. A frozen target is treated asthough he has been staked (see p. 280). With a Willpower roll (difficulty 7) and two successes, the targetcan break out of the rigor on her turn. Failure causesher a level of bashing damage and means another turnwasted and frozen.
	3:Wither
	*Reminiscent of some of the powers of Vicissitude,Wither allows a vampire to cripple an opponent’s limb.Whether the foe is living or undead, muscle shrivelsaway, skin peels, and bone becomes brittle. The target is unable to exert any noteworthy strength in thecrippled limb. This injury lasts for far longer than mostinjuries trouble vampires, and in mortals it simply doesnot heal.Wither doesn’t have to be used on a limb, althoughthat is its usual purpose. It can also be used simply toaffect the target’s face and hair, making him appear farolder than his years. It could also be applied to a target’s eye or ear, killing the sense in that organ (andthus requiring two uses to permanently blind or deafen). Wither cannot be used as an “instant-kill” power— necromancers cannot wither internal organs — butit can inflict a wide variety of injuries on a foe.System: The player spends a Willpower point. Thecharacter chooses a limb on the target and then touches that limb. If the target is trying to avoid contact, theinvoker’s player rolls Dexterity + Brawl to hit as normal. If the character succeeds in touching the intendedlimb, the target suffers two aggravated wounds. Unlessthe target soaks both wounds (such as with Fortitude),the struck limb is crippled and unusable until both ofthose wounds have healed. Kindred heal the wounds as they would any other aggravated wound (see p. 285).Mortals are incapable of healing aggravated wounds, sothey suffer throughout their lives unless they are healedthrough supernatural means. A withered limb does notdegenerate further, even on a mortal. The charactermay be crippled for life, but the limb won’t becomeinfected or gangrenous.The effects of the withering depend on the affectedlimb. A crippled arm has a Strength of 0, cannot benefit from Potence, and cannot carry anything heavierthan about half a pound (200 grams). A crippled legprevents the character from moving faster than a stuttering hop or dragging limp. The character suffers theeffects of the Lame Flaw (see p. 482). A single witheredeye or ear imposes a +1 difficulty to relevant Perceptionrolls. Losing both eyes or both ears imposes the effectsof the Blind or Deaf Flaws (see pp. 484 and 483). Awithered tongue imposes the effects of the Mute Flaw(p. 483), while a withered face reduces the target’s Appearance by one for each aggravated wound suffered.
	4:Corrupt the Undead Flesh
	*Corrupt the Undead Flesh blurs the line between lifeand undeath, turning an undead creature into something just living enough to carry and suffer from disease. The disease inflicts the target, causing lethargy,dizziness, loss of strength, clumsiness, and the inability to keep blood in his system. This pernicious influence is extremely virulent among mortals. They pickthe disease up simply by spending a few hours near thevictim. Other vampires have a harder time acquiringthe disease. They must consume the victim’s blood todo so, but afterward, they suffer just as much as theoriginal target — including passing the affliction onto others.The disease fades after roughly a week.
	**System: The player chooses a target within hercharacter’s line of sight and no more than 20 yards ormeters away. She rolls Intelligence + Medicine (difficulty 6) and spends a point of Willpower. The victim’splayer must roll Stamina (+ Fortitude, if appropriate)against a difficulty equal to the attacker’s Willpower. Ifthe player scores more successes than the victim, he acquires a virulent disease immediately. The disease hasthe following effects:
		@5 successes		The victim’s player must spend one additionalblood point every evening for the vampire to rousehimself to consciousness. Mortals lose one health levelper day instead.
		@6 successes		The victim’s player must roll Self-Control or Instinct each time the character feeds (difficulty 8). Ona failure, the vampire cannot keep the blood he justingested inside his body, and he vomits it up in greathorrifying gouts of gore, losing any benefit the bloodmight have provided. Humans vomit up food.Every evening at sunset, the victim has a chance tothrow off the plague. The victim’s player rolls Stamina,with a difficulty equal to 10 minus the number of sunsets since acquiring the plague. On a successful roll, thecharacter fights the disease to a standstill and beginsto recover. He instantly regains his ability to manageblood, and he heals back one lost Attribute point perhour until all have returned.
		@7 successes		The victim loses one point of Dexterity.
		@8 successes		The victim’s Strength and Wits are halved (rounddown).
		@9 successes		Dissolve the Flesh
	*This ability brings the Grave’s Decay path full circle,as it causes Destroy the Husk to apply to vampires. Dissolve the Flesh allows a necromancer to attempt toturn vampiric flesh to dust or ash, as though the targethad been burned or left out in the sun.System: The player spends two blood points and aWillpower point as the vampire extracts a quantity ofher vitae charged with the power of the grave. If shedrips it onto a single Kindred victim anytime withinthe next few turns (most of the blood must reach thevictim, so flinging a few drops is ineffective), it causeswhole chunks of the victim’s body to crumble to ash.The player rolls Willpower against a difficulty of thevictim’s Stamina + 3. For every success, the targettakes one aggravated wound.
	**The undead flesh damaged by this power turns todust (gone for the time being), and it must be regenerated painstakingly by the victim, should he survive.That dust doubtlessly has mystical properties that various sorcerers might be able to take advantage of. Everywound inflicted by this ability represents the loss ofabout one-eighth of the target’s weight; the Storytellerchooses where the loss comes from. (It might also beshed from all over, leaving the victim a bit gaunter ormissing chunks of flesh.) Regenerating body parts occurs naturally while healing aggravated wounds at the normal rate (see p. 285).

--Path of the Four Humors
	*Philosophically, the four humors represent differentqualities, split along two axes: hot and cold, and wetand dry. Blood is hot and wet; phlegm is cold and wet;yellow bile is hot and dry; and black bile is cold and dry.Historically, when a mortal was out of sorts or ill, it wassaid that his humors were out of balance, and a philosopher or physician would try to heal him by bringing hishumors back into balance. Ancient necromancers believed that in their undead forms, all four humors wereheld in a mystical stasis, and that they could tap into allfour of them instead of merely tapping into blood in theform of vitae as other vampires did.This antiquated path was primarily considered theknowledge of the Lamia bloodline, and certainly veryfew necromancers have learned this path without tutoring from a Lamia. Since the loss of the Lamia, eldernecromancers have searched everywhere (both in thisworld and the next) for clues to its existence.
	1:Whispers to the Soul
	*The necromancer with this ability can let slip a littleof her own undead bilious humor as she speaks to another being (whether mortal or Kindred). The wickedvapor slips into the target’s ear and whispers nightmares to the target throughout the day and night. Thetarget has a harder time sleeping, and becomes irritableand distracted during his waking hours.System: The character must whisper the target’sname (as she knows it) into his ear. The victim rollsWillpower (difficulty 8). If the roll fails, the victim suffers from nightmares and hears mad, wicked mutterings while awake, for a number of full days equal to thenecromancer’s Manipulation. The victim loses one diefrom all dice pools while thus afflicted, and at the Storyteller’s discretion, the difficulty to resist Rötschreckmay be increased by one at the same time.
	2:Kiss of the Dark Mother
	*Kiss of the Dark Mother allows the necromancerwho uses it to mix her vitae with black bile, turning itinto a noxious poison. The necromancer forces it intoher mouth as saliva might once have come; the vitaetastes acrid and bitter, as though it had been scorched.Once the necromancer coats her teeth and lips with it,she can inflict terrible damage with her bite.System: The player spends one blood point; activating this power is a reflexive action, but it must be donebefore making a bite attack. If the bite hits, the aggravated damage inflicted by a single bite is doubled be- fore soak is calculated. This power does not affect thecharacter’s ability to drain blood from the target, nordoes it increase the amount of damage done by bloodloss. The necromancer’s bite remains potent until thisability is discharged by a successful hit or she spendsone turn cleansing the dark blood from her mouth.
	3:Dark Humors
	*The vampire can exude a coat of a particular humoronto her skin, causing all that touch it to experiencethe most intense form of that humor. After a necromancer has used this power, she generally feels theopposite of the sensation the humor usually conveys:Using blood leaves her depressed and pessimistic; usingyellow bile renders her calm and placid; using blackbile leaves her optimistic; and using phlegm makes heraroused and angry.System: The player spends two blood points. Thenecromancer chooses which humor she wishes to excrete. The humor can simply coat the skin — in whichcase touching the victim’s skin lets the humor take effect — or it can act as a poison if placed in a beverage (or in vitae). The victim must make a Stamina roll(difficulty 8) to resist the effects of the humor:• Phlegm: Target becomes lethargic; all dice poolsare reduced by two for the remainder of the scene.• Blood (vitae): Target becomes prone to excessivebleeding, and any lethal or aggravated wounds he suffers deal an additional health level of damage on theturn after they originally occur. Vitae altered by DarkHumors will not turn a human into a ghoul if ingested,nor will it initiate a blood bond.• Black Bile: Target suffers a number of health levelsof damage equal to the necromancer’s Stamina. Thisdamage is considered lethal and can be soaked (if thevictim is normally capable of soaking such damage),though armor does not protect against it.• Yellow Bile: Target becomes melancholic and isplagued with visions of death. He cannot spend Willpower for the remainder of the scene, and all Willpower rolls receive a +2 difficulty.
	4:Clutching the Shroud
	*Blood, the sanguine humor, was regarded by philosophers as being both hot and wet. Blood from a coldcorpse has been transubstantiated into a dead form —a cold incarnation of a hot, wet element. This transformation of the living into death holds great power;the necromancer knows how to infuse her own beingwith the blood of a cold corpse and transform herself into something not wholly vampiric. Instead, the necromancer edges closer to being an animated corpse infact as well as name. She grows distant and chill, asthough possessed by the spirit of Death itself; she has towork to push her attention into the physical world.System: The character must drink, and then spend,five blood points from a cold corpse (one dead for 24hours or more, but generally less than three days). Itwill generally take at least two turns to consume thatblood, and the power is not activated until the character can spend all of it. For example, if the characteris Twelfth Generation, Clutching the Shroud takes atleast seven turns total to activate (two to consume theblood and five to spend it).After the power is active and for the rest of the scene,the necromancer gains several benefits. First, she receives two additional soak dice, which may be used tosoak any sort of damage, even if the character does notpossess Fortitude. Second, she gains a mystic sense ofhow far those in the area are from death — whetherthey are healthy or infirm, suffer from diseases, or areundead, ghouls, or mortals. Finally, a Manipulation +Occult roll lets her speak with ghosts freely. The difficulty for this roll depends on how attuned to death alocale is; a cemetery would be difficulty 5, while a cozyapartment might be difficulty 7. However, this abilitymakes the necromancer much more susceptible to theeffects of powers used by ghosts, which means that shemust act carefully.
	5:Black Breath
	*A necromancer who has mastered this path can harness the undead black bile that festers at the core of herbeing; she pulls that melancholy to her lungs and lets itmingle with her outgoing breath. She then exhales thedark mist, letting it engulf those nearby. The necromancer feels curiously lightheaded and optimistic afterusing this power, as she has forced some of her mostdepressed nature out into the world; those caught inthe black vapors grow despairing and hopeless.System: The player spends one Willpower and oneblood point, and rolls Stamina + Athletics (difficulty7). Black Breath allows the character to exhale a darkcloud of vapor that is five yards or meters in diameter persuccess rolled. Those caught in the mists may attempta Dexterity + Athletics roll to escape it if they have anavailable action; otherwise, they may be overwhelmedby depression to the point of suicide. Those who cannot escape the mists must immediately roll Willpower (difficulty 8 for mortals, 7 for supernatural beings) andachieve more successes than the invoker did. Mortalswho fail in this actively attempt to kill themselves ontheir next turn. They do not attempt such ludicroussuicides as praying for a lightning bolt or holding theirbreath; they use the most effective means at hand toend their own lives. If prevented from suicide, they attempt it again as soon as an opportunity presents itself.This impulse lasts for the rest of the scene, and the Storyteller may impose flare-ups over the next day or so athis discretion. Those who succeed on the Willpowerroll still become enchanted with the prospect of death,whether mortal or Kindred, and lose two dice from alldice pools for the rest of the scene.Kindred who fail the Willpower roll do not attemptsuicide; as they are already dead, the malign influencesof undead humors do not have as strong an effect onthem. Instead, the affected vampire sinks into torpor.The duration of this torpor is based on the vampire’sHumanity or Path rating, just as if lethal wounds hadforced him into it.

--Vitreous Path
	*The Vitreous Path allows a necromancer to controland influence the energies pertaining to death. Thisextremely rare path manipulates entropy, a force thateven most necromancers are uncomfortable harnessing. A development of the Nagaraja bloodline (p. 406,although they sometimes call the path “Nihilistics”),the Vitreous Path makes a formidable complement tothe necromantic craft, and those obsessed with mastery over death and souls — such as the Harbingers ofSkulls — would certainly risk much to uncover thispath’s secrets.Like most necromancers, Nagaraja generally learnthe Sepulchre Path before any others. The VitreousPath is usually their second focus of study.
	1:Eyes of the Dead
	*The necromancer employing the Eyes of the Deadcan see with the perceptions of the Restless Dead(called Deathsight). To such a manipulator of ghostlyenergies, the auras of surrounding beings give off telltale hints as to their health and even their ultimatefate; the necromancer can see the energies of deathflowing through everyone, just as ghosts can. By looking at the entropic markings on a person’s body, thenecromancer can gain rough knowledge of how far thatperson is from death, how soon that person is likely todie, and even what the cause of her death is likely to be. The information thus gained is not exact by anymeans, but it gives the necromancer an edge over thoseshe scrutinizes.
	**System: The player rolls Perception + Occult, difficulty 6. One success lets a necromancer determinewhether someone is injured, diseased, or dying, as wellas whether the individual labors under any sort of curseor baleful magic.Further, the vampire can divine the target’s eventualdemise, depending on the successes scored. One success means the character can guess how long the target has to live to within a few weeks. Three successesmeans the character can estimate how long the targethas to live and what the probable source of death willbe, as the entropic markings show the wounds that willsomeday exist on that person. Five successes means thecharacter can actually see where and when the eventwill occur by interpreting the black marks on the target’s soul.This ability lasts for one scene, though the necromancer may choose to end the power early. It can beused to read the fate of only one target at a time. Storytellers should exercise judgment with this power, sincethe markings of death are typically unavoidable. Hemay decide to roll the dice himself, so that the playerhas no way of knowing whether her insight is correct.
	2:Aura of Decay
	*The necromancer can strengthen the feeling of entropy around her to the point where it breaks downnonliving objects and machines. It can gnarl wood,rust metal, crack silicon chips, and erode plastic, glass,and dead organic material. This power has a range ofone yard or meter from the necromancer’s body, but allthose in the presence of the vampire can feel her corruption as an icy wind.System: No roll is required, but this power does costat least one blood point. Objects subjected to this Auraof Decay break down and become useless after beingtargeted. How the object gives out, as well as the exactmechanism of failure, is up to the Storyteller. Corrosion, metal fatigue, or sheer brittleness are all suitablylikely for any given item’s demise, but the in-game effect of using a doomed item is as if the owning character rolled a botch. The speed at which an item breaksdown depends on how many blood points are spent.
	**Blood Spent 		Time to Breakdown
	**One			One week
	**Two			One day
	**Three			End of scene
	**Four			Five turns
	**Five			One turn
	**Note that since this power requires the expenditureof blood points, a character cannot cause an Aura ofDecay while staked.
	3:Soul Feast
	*Just as the necromancer can release entropic energies from within, she may also pull them into herselfas a source of power. Soul Feasting allows the casterto either draw on the ambient death energies aroundher or to actively feed on a ghost, stealing the wraith’ssubstance and mystically transforming that energy intosustenance.System: The player spends one Willpower point toallow the vampire to feed on the negative energies ofthe dead. If the character is drawing the energies fromthe atmosphere, she must be in a place where death hasoccurred within the hour or in a place where death iscommon, such as a cemetery, a morgue, or the scene ofa recent murder. Generally, the necromancer can drawanywhere from one to four points of entropy from sucha location, although the difficulty in using all Necromancy and similar deathly powers within the areaincreases by an equal amount for a number of nightsequal to the points taken. The energies of such an areamay only be drained once until the area’s entropy replenishes.In cases when the necromancer feeds on a ghost, thevampire must actually attack the wraith as if feedingnormally. Wraiths have up to 10 “blood points” thatmay be taken from them, and they become less andless substantial as their spirit essence drains away. Thecharacter is vulnerable to any attack the ghost mightmake, even those that do not normally affect the physical world; while feeding, the vampire is essentially ina half-state, existing in both the living lands and theUnderworld simultaneously. The wraith so attacked isconsidered immobilized and cannot run or escape unless it can defeat the vampire in a resisted Willpowerroll (difficulty 6 for both sides). This power may alsobe used in conjunction with Ash Path Necromancy,allowing the vampire to drain power (though not sustenance) from ghosts while traveling in the lands ofthe dead.This soul energy may be used just like blood in every respect except for when the vampire rises for the night. It can activate Disciplines, heal wounds, boostAttributes, etc. Botching this power renders the vampire unable to feed through the Shroud for the rest ofthe night. However, she remains susceptible to the assaults of ghosts and spirits for several turns (generally,a number of turns equal to the amount of energy thatcould have been drawn from the area, or one turn if attacking a ghost) as she hovers between worlds, unableto function effectively in either.
	4:Breath of Thanatos
	*The Breath of Thanatos allows the necromancer todraw out entropic energy and focus it upon an areaor person by taking a deep breath and then forcefullyexhaling a fog of necromantic energy. This cloud ofvirulence is completely invisible to anyone without theability to see the passing of entropy. The energy of thiscloud is like a beacon for Spectres, and they are drawnto the entropic force like moths to a flame.Once the energy is pulled from the necromancer’sbody, she can either disperse it over a large area as alure for Spectres, or use the mist for more sinister purposes. Channeled into an object or person, the deathmist inflicts the subject with a debilitating, wasting illness. Furthermore, the focused energies are tainted andeerie, and though generally invisible (except to powerssuch as Aura Perception), they tend to cause peopleand animals to feel uncomfortable around the victim.System: The player spends one blood point and rollsWillpower (difficulty 8). Only one success is needed todraw out the Breath of Thanatos. If dispersed to summon Spectres, the energies cover roughly one-quarterof a mile (400 meters) in radius, centered around thenecromancer. The range increases by an additionalone-quarter mile or 400 meters for every additionalblood point expended.Spectres summoned with this power will ignore thesummoning necromancer for the duration of the power unless provoked, but may well go out of their wayto wreak havoc on anyone else in the vicinity. Thenecromancer can then use other Necromancy powers(such as those in the Sepulchre Path) to manipulateand affect these Spectres. Ghosts so targeted may theninteract with the necromancer as normal, although theother Spectres in the area will continue to ignore boththe vampire and the targeted ghost. This energy disperses after a scene, after which the Spectres leave tofind new prey. Mechanics for Spectres can be found onp. 385.
	**If the cloud is directed toward a particular target, thenecromancer must either touch the target or direct thestream of entropy using Dexterity + Occult (difficulty7). A target laden with entropy suffers one (and onlyone) level of aggravated damage; this generally manifests as sudden illness or decay. The target’s social difficulties while interacting with those unfamiliar withthe touch of death — most normal humans, as well assome supernatural creatures — increase by 2. Furthermore, supernatural perceptions indicate the target istainted with decay, which can be dangerous. This formof taint lasts until sunrise; a victim already plagued bythis power cannot be affected again until the previousfog of entropy has dispersed.A botch on the roll to control this power indicatesthat the vampire has turned the energy upon himself,and suffers all the effects of the vitriolic breath. Thisinflicts the usual injury and may subject the necromancer to the possibly dangerous attention of provokedSpectres and other creatures from beyond the grave.
	5:Night Cry
	*The breath of entropic energy becomes a scream ofpure chaos. The necromancer can issue an unearthly cry(heard both in the living world and in the Shadowlands).The howl pours icy oblivion into a target or group oftargets — either sweeping away the inherent entropy orcollecting that destruction and unleashing it.System: The vampire chooses a number of targetswithin one yard or meter per dot of Necromancy andinvokes Night Cry with a terrible scream. The playerspends a Willpower point and a blood point for eachtarget beyond the first. (In other words, she spendsno blood if only going after one target, or one bloodfor two targets. Generational blood limits apply, andthe vampire may not “pre-spend” blood prior to usingNight Cry.)The player then chooses whether the vampire will aidor harm the targets, and rolls Manipulation + Occult(difficulty 6). If she chooses to aid the target or targets,each success gives each affected target a -2 difficultymodifier to all of his actions for one turn per success. Ifshe instead chooses harm, each success causes an aggravated wound to each target. Targets may be any kind ofliving creature, including supernatural ones.No matter the result, the Night Cry is heard on bothsides of the Shroud, attracting the attention of anyonenearby. On a botch, the necromancy may summon unruly ghosts or Spectres, similar to Breath of Thanatos (although the ghosts are under no compulsion to ignore the necromancer…).

----Assamite Sorcery
	*From a purely functional standpoint, the blood magicthat the Assamite sorcerer caste practices differs littlefrom that wielded by the Tremere. From a philosophical perspective, however, worlds of difference separatethe two. The Tremere force every piece of knowledgethey incorporate into the structured, rigid frameworkof high Hermetic invocation. By contrast, the sorcerercaste’s practices are the result of millennia of adaptation and melding, and are too disparate to be considered “structured” in any real sense. The modern bodyof knowledge that is Assamite Sorcery draws its content from a wide array of magical traditions, from theecstatic rites of Kali and Shiva’s followers to the subtle precision of feng shui to the elegant symbolic andmathematical transformations of Islamic alchemistsand astronomers.Assamite Sorcery is mechanically identical to themore common Thaumaturgy that appears on pp. 212240. However, though they work on similar principles(the use of vampiric vitae to fuel exertions of consciouswill in order to effect change upon the physical orspiritual world), the two are not cross-compatible. ATremere strives to perform his magic the same way, allthe time, every time. An Assamite might never enactthe same ritual the same exact way twice in a millennium.As may be expected, students of Assamite Sorceryhave great difficulty learning the practices of otherblood magic traditions. All experience points costs tolearn other blood magic paths and rituals are increasedby half (round up) for Assamite sorcerers. In addition,even once the sorcerer has incorporated these lessonsinto her repertoire, they are still alien to her. All invocations of a “foreign” path require one extra bloodpoint and all rituals take triple the normal time andrequire one extra success for any desired result.Awakening of the SteelAlthough combat mastery is hardly the sorcerercaste’s primary goal, they have a long tradition ofstanding ready to defend themselves and, if need be, assisting the warrior caste on the battlefield. Awakening of the Steel is one legacy of this preparedness,a path that some say began with the alchemists whostudied in the forges of Toledo and Damascus. This setof techniques focuses on the symbolism of the swordas the ultimate extension of a trained warrior’s body,drawing on the myths that various warrior traditionsattached to their swords and daggers: European Crusaders and their blessed blades, the kris of IndonesianPentjak-Silat practitioners, and Indian Ghurkas andtheir kukri knives, among others. The practitioner ofAwakening of the Steel focuses on this symbolism ashe uses the power of his blood to enhance his weaponand his skill. A student of Awakening of the Steel finds that akeen understanding of both the form and the functionof a blade is necessary for full mastery of this path. Acharacter must have a level of either Melee or CraftsAbility equal to his level in Awakening of the Steel.Those who practice this path also find that its lessonsare tightly focused, perhaps to the point of overspecialization. The path is at its most effective with swordsand knives, and the wielder can only extend its effectsto other edged weapons. Any attempt to use a technique of this path on another edged weapon is at +1difficulty.
	1:Confer with the Blade
	*Although few Assamites claim to have actually spoken to a weapon’s soul, blacksmiths and warriors alikehave ascribed spiritual qualities to hand-forged bladesfor centuries. Practitioners of Auspex are familiar withthe manner in which inanimate objects can bear impressions of their own history. Confer with the Bladeallows a weapon’s wielder to delve into the events thathave occurred around his weapon. Some practitionersof this power claim this makes the weapon feel more“comfortable” in their hands, while others speak of thesense of history that an ancient blade bears. The actualimpressions only take an instant to gain, though manyprefer to spend much longer in contemplation if timepermits.System: The number of successes determines theamount of information the sorcerer gains regarding theblade’s history and its present state, as well as all information yielded by a lesser number of successes. Withthree or more successes, the sorcerer may lower thedifficulty on his next attempt to apply a blood-magicritual to the weapon by one.
	2:Grasp of the Mountain
	*The best scimitar in all creation does its owner nogood if it’s lying five yards away from him. Grasp ofthe Mountain strengthens the spiritual bond betweenthe sword and the swordsman in order to reinforce thewielder’s physical grip on his weapon. A blade thatis under the effect of this art never leaves its master’shand unless he so wills it.System: For the rest of the scene, the character hasa number of automatic successes to resist all attemptsto disarm him, equal to the number of successes rolled.He cannot accidentally drop the blade (which meanshis botches are likely to result in self-mutilation instead of an empty hand). If the character is somehowdisarmed in spite of Grasp of the Mountain, he maycall the blade back to his hand by successfully invokingthis power again, assuming he has a clear line of sightto the weapon.
	3:Pierce Steel’s Skin
	*At this level of understanding, the sorcerer can command his blade with such precision that he can strikeat an opponent’s physical protection rather than hisbody. The sword transfers its full fury to the intendedtarget, shredding even the toughest chain or plate. Thisstrips away the victim’s defenses, leaving him vulner- able to the next attack. While this power is of limitedutility in modern nights, as traditional armor has fallenby the wayside, it remains in the path’s progression oflessons due to its utility in destroying other obstacles.System: While Pierce Steel’s Skin is in effect, an attack against an unarmored target inflicts half damage(rounded down). However, for a number of turns equalto the number of successes rolled, each successful attack the character makes against an armored foe inflicts damage on the target’s body armor rather than injuring him directly. Only metal armor can be damagedby this power. When the character makes a successfulattack against an armored target, the player does notroll damage. Instead, he rolls a number of dice equalto the sword’s damage bonus (the number of dice thatit adds to his Strength) against a difficulty of 7. Eachsuccess reduces the armor’s soak bonus by one die. Armor that is reduced to zero soak dice in this manneris completely destroyed and unsalvageable. Additionalsuccesses beyond those needed to destroy a piece of armor have no effect.At the Storyteller’s discretion, Pierce Steel’s Skinmay destroy other inanimate objects (walls, doors, cars,dramatically appropriate obstacles) without significantdamage to the sword. For the purposes of this power,Fortitude counts as part of the target’s Stamina, notexternal armor.
	4:Razor’s Shield
	*Many swordsmen hold that the duel is the ultimatetest of the warrior because it places all opponents on anequal footing: Death is only three feet of steel away, andonly the skill of the combatants determines who walksaway. However, observers who are more pragmatic thanromantic note that an enemy with a ranged weapon(be it bow, sling, or gun) has the advantage of striking from much farther away than arm’s length. WhileAwakening of the Steel cannot completely counteractthis advantage, this power allows the skilled sorcerersome measure of defense as the sword interposes itselfbetween its master and attacks from afar.System: For a number of turns equal to the numberof successes rolled, the character may attempt to parryprojectiles. This requires one action for each projectilethat the player wishes to block, and the character mustbe able to see the shot coming (Heightened Senses allows visual tracking of bullets). Each parrying attemptrequires a Dexterity + Melee roll, with a difficulty determined by the speed of the projectile. Thrown objects have a difficulty of 6, arrows and crossbow bolts a difficulty of 7, and bullets a difficulty of 9. Each successsubtracts one success from the attacker’s attack roll.Razor’s Shield does not allow the character to parryranged attacks that do not incorporate solid projectiles,such as flame, lightning, or spat blood.
	5:Strike at the True Flesh
	*Although pacifists may find other uses for blades, awarrior knows that swords were created for one purpose: to carve an enemy’s flesh into bloody ruin. Strikeat the True Flesh invokes the very essence of the sorcerer’s weapon, reducing it to the embodiment of itsvery definition (or, as the more classically mindedwould put it, invoking the Platonic form) while simplifying its target to a similarly basic level. The resultsof such an invocation are usually devastating on both aphilosophical and practical level as weapon and victimmomentarily lose all supernatural attributes.System: The effects of Strike at the True Flesh lastfor a number of turns equal to the number of successesrolled, and they end with the first successful attack thatthe character makes within this time period. The swordinflicts only the base amount of lethal damage that aweapon of its size and type would normally cause, disregarding all enhancements that it may have received(though augmentations to the wielder’s strength orspeed, such as Potence and Celerity, still have their normal effects, as do extra successes on the attack roll).However, all the target’s supernatural defenses (including Fortitude) are likewise negated — he soaks theattack only with his base Stamina. If the negation ofhis powers and defenses renders the target unable tosoak lethal damage, he cannot soak the attack at all.Body armor does protect against this attack, as it is amundane form of defense.

----Koldunic Sorcery
	*The actual casting of Koldunic sorcery requires morethan a clumsy exertion of will. Such magic demandsperfection of form and mastery of the appropriate lore.The caster’s player spends one blood point and rolls(Attribute) + Occult against a difficulty of the power’slevel + 3, with the specific Attribute listed for eachpath or “way.” Vampires always use the base Attribute,ignoring any bonuses gained from blood expenditureor other Disciplines. All kolduns must select one of theways listed below as their primary path.The Way of EarthCapable of great destruction and great healing, theearth is the womb of life and the sepulcher of death. Itdrinks all blood violently spilled upon its soil, and somirrors the vampire. It is by association with the earthas a source of strength that a koldun enacts his will.

--The Way of Earth
	1:Grasping Soil
	*A koldun invoking this power may command earthto rise in a spray of dirt and crawl up a victim’s legs.This power can only command soil, not stone, and mayonly target victims standing on the earth.System: The koldun may direct any patch of earthwithin a 100-foot/30-meter radius to ensnare a targetfor two turns per success rolled. Animated dirt ascendsand constricts midway between the victim’s knees andhips, holding her fast unless her player scores five successes on Strength + Survival roll (difficulty 6). It isalso possible to use this power as an attack, in whichcase the grasping earth crushes once and then releases.Used in this manner, each success on the casting inflicts one level of lethal damage. Such damage manifests as broken legs and crushed feet.
	2:Endurance of Stone
	*Drawing the essence of earth into himself, a koldunmay gain a measure of its preternatural resilience. Under the effects of this power, a vampire’s skin resemblesa horrid fusion of flesh and stone that cracks and flowsimpossibly with every movement.System: A successful activation roll grants the koldun two extra dots of Stamina for the rest of the scene.These dots are considered part of the character’s natural Stamina and may aid in any uses of that Attribute,including soak.
	3:Hungry Earth
	*Expanding on the power of Grasping Soil, a koldunmay use this power to drag a victim into the earth.He need only gesture and the soil beneath his victimopens like the maw of a great beast. This power mayensnare any victim who stands upon the earth within100 feet/30 meters of the koldun.System: Like Grasping Soil, every success on the activation roll leaves the victim immobile for one turn.However, the difficulty of the Strength + Survival rollto break free increases to 8 and doing so still requiresfive successes. As the earth continues to shift and graspwhile the power remains active, this roll must be madeas a single (though repeatable) attempt rather than anextended test. In addition, beings trapped in the crushing pit suffer one level of lethal damage each turn. Beings capable of soaking this damage may do so, but atdifficulty 7. At the end of the power’s duration, theearth yawns once more to release the victim. Attribute: Stamina
	4:Root of Vitality
	*As with Hungry Earth, the koldun may direct theland to bury any target standing on the earth withina 100-foot/30-meter radius. Yet this power is far morebenevolent in its intent, if no less disturbing in itsmanifestation. The soil ripples, parting and closing likesome obscene womb as it draws the target a full yardbeneath the surface. Living beings entombed in thisfashion do not suffocate, as the enchanted soil pumpsair from above in undulating breaths. Better still, thefertile essence of the earth presses upon her flesh andrestores it to new health. Still, the process is highlydisturbing and unnatural, especially as targets remainwholly aware in silent, helpless immobility for the fullduration. It is possible for a koldun to heal himself withthis power.System: The player spends as many blood points asdesired (which may require multiple turns dependingon Generation) and makes the activation roll. Eachsuccess permits the earth to heal two levels of bashing damage or one level of lethal damage. Healing aggravated damage requires two successes per level. Thetotal number of health levels that may be restored witheach use of this power is the number of blood pointsinvested or the number of successes on the activationroll, whichever is lower. Any blood points spent beyond the number of successes drain away to no effect.The actual healing process takes one turn per bashinglevel, one minute per lethal level, and one hour peraggravated level. Once the healing is complete or thepower is interrupted through determined excavation,the earth expels the target back to the surface.
	5:Kupala’s Fury
	*Mortals pray in fear when the mountains shake.They fear the wrath of the Old Gods, and rightfully so.This is not a power used lightly or capriciously, becauseit represents one of the greatest weapons available toKoldunic Sorcery.System: This power requires a Willpower point inaddition to the usual cost and activation roll. The koldun smites the earth with his fist, and his anger flowsthrough the soil to any target in his line of sight. Thequake erupts outward from that point, inflicting 10dice of lethal damage on everything and everyone inthe area of effect. Most wooden structures collapseentirely and even buildings of concrete and steel maygrow cracked and pitted with superficial damage fromthe shaking earth. This tremor lasts one turn and affects an area determined by the number of successes rolled. It is not possible to apply fewer successes thanthose rolled.
		@1 success		One house or single storefront
		@2 successes		Five lesser structures or a small cityblock
		@3 successes		An entire side street or a largecity block
		@4 successes		Multiple square blocks or a largestructure (like a stadium)
		@5 successes		An entire neighborhood or massiveindustrial complex
		
--The Way of Wind
	*Subtler than mastery over earth, this way evokes theair in the breath of the living and last rattle of a dyingman. In stillness or motion, koldun turn all aspects ofair to their unliving design.Attribute: Perception
	1:Breath of Whispers
	*Even in their absence, koldun instill deep fear intheir servants. This power carries the vampire’s wordson a light breeze and returns with the target’s reply.The vampire need only address the target by name andforcibly mimic a deep exhalation of breath as he speakshis message.System: Every time the koldun wishes to send anew message via this power, his player makes the usualactivation roll. However, the player need only spendblood the first time the power is used during a givenscene. Each success permits one turn of speech. Afterthe vampire concludes the message, swift winds carryit to its destination. Within a minute, the target hearsthe koldun as if the vampire whispered in his ear. Hemay reply or remain silent, but anything he says withina number of turns equal to the koldun’s successes fliesback to the koldun. This power may bring words toanyone within a mile (one and a half kilometers) whois not in a sealed room. While using this power, a koldun must concentrate fully. Any disturbance breaksthe communication.
	2:Biting Gale
	*Vengeful koldun sought to invoke a wind as chillas air atop the Carpathian Mountains. This powerachieves that end, unleashing a cutting wind that canfreeze a man’s blood in his veins as it swirls through an area of his choosing. Besides its obvious combat applications, this power also facilitates a dramatic entrancefor those so inclined. System: With a successful activation roll, the koldun summons a freezing wind within a maximum ofa 100-yard/meter radius. Anyone caught in this frigid blast suffers one die of bashing damage each turn(which may be soaked normally), loses two dice fromall Dexterity pools, and moves at half normal speed.The winds last as long as the koldun wills, provided hemaintains concentration. Any non-reflexive actionson the part of the vampire cause the winds to still anddissipate. This includes any movement.
	3:Breeze of Lethargy
	*Although they cannot induce immediate sleep, thewinds evoked by this power bring growing exhaustionand numbing weariness through every muscle. Victimsof this power often smell a hint of bittersweet smokebefore they fall entranced.System: For two turns per success, the koldun creates a wind inflicting extreme lethargy within a 200foot/60-meter radius. Players of characters caught inthis wind must roll Stamina + Survival (difficulty 8).This roll is made once every ten minutes of exposure.Failure means the character halves all dice pools involving physical actions for the remaining duration ofthe wind and halves all movement rates for the scene.A botch puts the character to sleep (or a state of lighttorpor for vampires) for the scene. Sleeping charactersawaken if prodded, shaken, or otherwise manhandled,though they move slowly and may suffer halved dicepools if the wind persists.
	4:Ride the Tempest
	*A koldun employing this power moves at incrediblespeeds as he rides along the winds. While travelingwith this power, a vampire assumes a blurred form thatcoalesces as he reaches his destination.System: With a successful activation roll, the koldunfades into the wind and flies at 250 mph/400 kph to hisdestination. This power cannot effectively function incaves, buildings, or other enclosed areas. Outside, thevampire’s flight navigates all obstacles. Once the koldun arrives at his destination or the scene ends, thevampire descends to earth and solidifies.
	5:Tempest
	*Applying fury magnified by blood and will, a koldunmay project the full measure of his anger into the nightsky. Churning gray clouds blot out stars and moon, unleashing spiraling gusts and a driving downpour offreezing rain. Lightning arcs overhead, with each thunderous flash casting jagged shadows. System: With a successful activation roll and a pointof Willpower (in addition to the usual blood), a koldunmay conjure a terrible storm. It takes six hours for theclouds to gather and thicken overhead, minus one hourfor every success rolled. If this results in a duration ofless than one hour, the clouds blossom outward fromdirectly overhead like a black canopy, filling the sky inmere minutes. Once the clouds form, the rain beginsto fall in torrents and the lightning begins. The stormpersists at full strength for one hour per success rolled. Itgradually dissipates over the hour following that. Duringthe peak of its fury, the storm may cause flooding andcertainly chills any exposed mortal to the bone (1 dieof unsoakable bashing damage every five minutes of fullexposure). Lightning strikes regularly, far more than ausual storm. Indeed, for a cost of one Willpower point,a koldun may direct lightning at a foe using his Perception + Occult (difficulty 6). A successful strike inflicts10 dice of lethal damage (which can be soaked normally). Only one such attack may be made each turn.

--The Way of Water
	*Largely practiced by koldun with havens near a largewater source, this way can raise watery spirit slaves anddash a ship to splinters. More subtly, the vampire maylurk in the depths or conjure illusions to confound anddazzle his foes.Attribute: Wits
	1:Pool of Lies
	*This versatile power creates three-dimensional illusions along the surface of a water source. How a koldunuses such illusions depends on his temperament andwill. It is just as easy to feign a divine visitation as acunning seduction.System: With a successful activation roll, the koldun may project an illusion on any water surface in lineof sight. The illusion may speak and move however thevampire wishes, though it has no substance and cannot step beyond the bounds of the water. The phantomlasts one turn per success rolled, after which it slowlydissipates into fine mist. It is possible to extend thislifespan with subsequent activations of the power, eachof which stack in determining final duration. Rolls toextend an illusion’s duration add one to the base difficulty, but require no blood. Once an illusion fadesaway, it must be cast anew.
	2:Watery Haven
	*Just as the Gangrel meld with the earth, so may akoldun with this power sink beneath the water to escape the sun. The vampire does not so much submergeas merge with the water. Though his slumbering formmay be visible at odd angles from above, only the mostdetermined splashing can disturb his rest.System: This power requires no blood. If the player gainstwo or more successes on the activation roll, the vampiresinks into the water as per the Protean power Earth Meld.A body of water must be at least two feet deep and as largein other dimensions as the vampire’s body to contain him.Catching a glimpse of a hidden koldun in the water requiresa successful Perception + Alertness roll (difficulty 8).
	3::Fog Over Sea
	*Moving with the unnatural grace of a ghost, a koldunemploying this power may stride across water as readilyas land, leaving nary a ripple to mark his passing. Somevampires delight in using this power in conjunctionwith Pool of Lies to conjure phantasms to attend them.System: For every success on the activation roll, thekoldun may walk on water for one scene or one hour,whichever is longer. A koldun may choose to drop the effects of this power in order to submerge or swim;however, the vampire may not walk on water again unless he reactivates the power.
	4:Minions of the Deep
	*By dripping his blood into a body of water, a koldunmay summon or rouse embodied water elementals toserve him for a night. Such minions are infallibly loyal,if not especially clever. Despite their liquid form, theyare solid enough to grab a man and drag him to a watery grave or pummel him like the crashing surf.System: The player spends one Willpower point andmakes the standard activation roll. With success, theplayer may spend blood to summon elemental minions.This blood must be dripped or flung into a body of water, which may require multiple turns depending ongenerational limits for blood expenditure.Once the last drop of blood falls, the water rises intowhatever form the koldun desires. The caster may create as many minions as blood points spent, though notmore than the total number of successes rolled. Regardless of their form, the spirits have a rating equal tothe vampire’s Wits in all Traits. These beings have noKnowledges and no Skills apart from Stealth. Further- more, their Mental and Social Attributes are consideredto have a rating of 1 except in passive or defensive situations (such as to resist persuasion or mind-control).Water elementals soak and otherwise suffer damage asvampires, including from sunlight. Fire harms them less,inflicting bashing damage only. Moreover, the waterycreatures may extinguish flames with their liquid bodies, though not without suffering injury. An elementalwho leaves the body of water that spawned it suffersone level of aggravated damage per hour. Minions regenerate one level of damage of any kind (includingaggravated) each turn they remain in contact with alarge body of water, but do not otherwise heal. Unlessdestroyed, summoned minions last until the next dawnbefore collapsing into inanimate puddles.
	5:Doom Tide
	*Many ships lie at the bottom of the Black Sea, shattered by the whirlpools of the koldun. Victims of thispower must fight with every ounce of their strength orfall into the whirling, airless depths below.System: The player spends a Willpower point in addition to the usual blood. For every success on the activation roll, the resulting whirlpool has a radius of fivefeet/1.5 meters, centered anywhere in the vampire’s lineof sight. Whirlpools have a base Strength of 15, increasing by 5 dots per success after the first. Victims must successfully oppose this Strength with their own Strength +Survival (difficulty 8) in order to break free. Those whofail are sucked into the depths and pounded with crushingcurrents. Living beings drown normally, while vampiresand other non-breathing creatures simply remain trappedhelplessly in the vortex. This power lasts for one scene.

--The Way of Fire
	*The ancient anathema of vampires, the element offire offers the most powerful and dangerous tool available to koldun. The Way of Fire shares aspects with theWay of Earth, in that it focuses more on magma andfiery rock than pure, naked flame.Attribute: Manipulation
	1:Fiery Courage
	*No vampire can master an element he fears, so this power dims that fear to a mere ember of its former intensity.System: Once learned, this power is permanent andrequires no activation roll or blood. The koldun subtracts his rating in the Way of Fire from the difficulty of Courage rolls to resist Rötschreck from exposure orproximity to flame. This power does not aid in resisting the panic that accompanies sunlight or any othercauses apart from actual fire. If this reduces the difficulty of a Courage roll below two, the koldun simplydoes not succumb to the Red Fear. Koldun never riskRötschrek from fire and magma they conjure.
	2:Combust
	*The Cainite’s eyes flash vivid orange with sorcerouspower as superheated air coils around the target. Inmoments, the target bursts into spontaneous flame.System: For every success on the activation roll, thetarget suffers one level of aggravated damage. This attack may be dodged, but not blocked, and can affectliving (or unliving) beings at +2 difficulty. It is onlypossible to make one fiery attack per turn.
	3:Wall of Magma
	*The koldun raises his hand and the earth splits,spraying a wall of glowing magma 10 feet/3 metershigh. Normally, this wall forms a 10-foot/3-meter radius circle around the vampire, although the sorcerercan raise other shapes with practice and skill.System: The wall of magma summoned with thispower has a lifespan of two turns per success rolled. Ifthe koldun wishes to release the magma along a shapeother than a protective circle, increase the base difficulty by one. Characters cannot approach a wall ofmolten rock without a Courage roll (difficulty 8), andeven then, the close blistering heat inflicts a level ofaggravated damage. Actual contact with the lava increases the damage to three levels and raises the soakdifficulty to 9, assuming any sort of soak is possible. Thekoldun takes no damage from his proximity to the summoned magma (although contact with it still damageshim as normal).
	4:Heat Wave
	*The koldun acts as a conduit for steam geysers andchannels a blast of desiccating air at a victim withinline of sight. This fiery wind appears as a rippling heatwave enveloping the victim. Individuals slain withthis gruesome power appear as withered, mummifiedhusks.System: On a successful activation roll, the victimsuffers five levels of lethal damage that may be soakedby beings capable of such. Vampire targets also lose fiveblood points, regardless of the damage inflicted.
	5:Volcanic Blast
	*At the final mastery of Way of Fire, a koldun commands lava to explode from the ground in a huge geyser. The molten rock spews across a wide swath beforecrashing to earth and flowing in all directions. Anything in the path of the molten rock burns, melts, orvaporizes within moments. The caster may direct thelava to erupt anywhere in his line of sight. System: This power costs one Willpower point in addition to a blood point. For every success on the activation roll, the initial lava burst lasts one turn. The riversof burning liquid rock then flow sluggishly for twicethis duration before suddenly cooling and hardening.Even if an object survives the heat, it now lies trappedbeneath the rock. Anything that makes contact withlava (including the koldun) suffers a minimum of threelevels of aggravated damage. For objects that don’thave health levels, the Storyteller must decide howmany turns they last before melting or erupting intotheir own inferno. A botch on this power opens thelava geyser under an unintended target, possibly thekoldun himself.

----Thaumaturgy
	*Thaumaturgy encompasses blood magic and othersorcerous arts available to Kindred. The Tremere Clanis best known for their possession (and jealous hoarding) of this Discipline. The Tremere created Thaumaturgy by combining mortal wizardry with the powerof vampiric vitae, and as a result it is a versatile andpowerful Discipline. Although there are whispers ofthe existence of Tremere antitribu in the Sabbat, otherClans in the Sword of Caine have also researched and developed access to such mystical might. Nevertheless,the Tremere of the Camarilla remain this Discipline’smasters.Like Necromancy, the practice of Thaumaturgy isdivided into paths and rituals. Thaumaturgical pathsare applications of the vampire’s knowledge of bloodmagic, allowing her to create effects on a whim. Rituals are more formulaic in nature, most akin to ancientmagical “spells.” Because so many different paths andrituals are available to the arcane Tremere, one neverknows what to expect when confronted with a practitioner of this Discipline.When a character first learns Thaumaturgy, the player selects a path for the character. That path is considered the character’s primary path, and she automatically receives one dot in it, as well as one Level Oneritual. Thereafter, whenever the character increasesher level in Thaumaturgy, her rating in the primarypath increases by one as well. Additional rituals arelearned separately, as part of a story; players need notpay experience points for their characters to learn rituals up to the level equal to their overall rating in Thaumaturgy, though they must find someone to teach therituals in question. Path ratings never exceed 5, thoughthe overall Thaumaturgy score may. If a characterreaches a rating of 5 in her primary path and increasesher Thaumaturgy score afterward, she may allocate her“free” path dot to a different path. (Experience costsare covered on p. 124.)Many Kindred fear crossing the practitioners ofThaumaturgy. It is a very potent and mutable Discipline, and almost anything the Kindred wishes may beaccomplished through its magic.
	**Thaumaturgical Paths :Paths define the types of magic a vampire can perform. A vampire typically learns his primary path fromhis sire, though it is not unknown for some vampires tostudy under many different tutors.As mentioned before, the first path a character learnsis considered her primary path and increases automatically as the character advances in the Discipline itself.Secondary paths may be learned once the characterhas acquired two or more dots in her primary path, andthey must be raised separately with experience points.Furthermore, a character’s rating in her primary pathmust always be at least one dot higher than any of hersecondary paths until she has mastered her primarypath. Once the character has achieved the fifth level of her primary path, secondary paths may be increasedto that level.Each time the character invokes one of the powersof a Thaumaturgical path, the thaumaturge’s playermust spend a blood point and make a Willpower rollagainst a difficulty equal to the power’s level +3. Onlyone success is required to invoke a path’s effect — pathlevels, not successes, govern the power of blood magic.Failure on this roll indicates that the magic fails. Abotch causes some kind of loss or catastrophic backfire,such as losing a Willpower point (or dot!), spontaneous combustion, or accidentally letting a living statuerun rampant. Thaumaturgy is an unforgiving art.Various Sects and Clans have different access to eachpath, but unless the Storyteller decides otherwise, it isassumed the Tremere have some access to all of them.(“Having access” does not mean the same thing as “easily gained,” especially within the Tremere power structure.) The paths start with one of the most common(The Path of Blood), and thereafter are presented in alphabetical order. (The unusual “path” of Thaumaturgical Countermagic is also presented, although it is considered a separate Discipline – see p. 228 for details.)

--The Path of Blood
	*Almost every Tremere studies the Path of Blood asher primary path. It encompasses some of the most fundamental principles of Thaumaturgy, based as it is onthe manipulation of Kindred vitae. If a player wishes toselect another path as her character’s primary path, theStoryteller may require additional reasoning (thoughchoosing a different path is by no means unheard of).
	1:A Taste for Blood
	*This power was developed as a means of testing afoe’s might — an extremely important ability in thetumultuous early nights of Clan Tremere. By merelytouching the blood of his subject, the caster may determine how much vitae remains in the subject and, ifthe subject is a vampire, how recently he has fed, hisapproximate Generation and, with three or more successes, whether he has ever committed diablerie.System: The number of successes achieved on theroll determines how much information the thaumaturge gleans and how accurate it is.
	2:Blood Rage
	*This power allows a vampire to force another Kindred to expend blood against his will. The caster must touch her subject for this power to work, though onlythe lightest contact is necessary. A vampire affectedby this power might feel a physical rush as the thaumaturge heightens his Physical Attributes, might findhimself suddenly looking more human, or may evenfind himself on the brink of frenzy as his stores of vitaeare mystically depleted.System: Each success forces the subject to spend oneblood point immediately in the way the caster desires(which must go towards some logical expenditure thetarget vampire could make, such as increasing PhysicalAttributes or powering Disciplines). Note that bloodpoints forcibly spent in this manner may exceed thenormal “per turn” maximum indicated by the victim’sGeneration. Each success gained also increases thesubject’s difficulty to resist frenzy by one. The thaumaturge may not use Blood Rage on herself to circumventgenerational limits.
	3:Blood of Potency
	*The thaumaturge gains such control over his ownblood that he may effectively “concentrate” it, making it more powerful for a short time. In effect, he maytemporarily lower his own Generation with this power.This power may be used only once per night.System: One success on the Willpower roll allowsthe character to lower his Generation by one step forone hour. Each additional success grants the Kindredeither one step down in Generation or one hour of effect. Successes earned must be spent both to decreasethe vampire’s Generation and to maintain the change(this power cannot be activated again until the original application wears off). If the vampire is diablerizedwhile this power is in effect, it wears off immediatelyand the diablerist gains power appropriate to the caster’s actual Generation. Furthermore, any mortals Embraced by the thaumaturge are born to the Generationappropriate to their sire’s original Generation (e.g., aTenth-Generation Tremere who has reduced his effective Generation to Eighth still produces EleventhGeneration childer).Once the effect wears off, any blood over the character’s blood pool maximum dilutes, leaving the character at his regular blood pool maximum. Thus, if aTwelfth-Generation Tremere (maximum blood poolof 11) decreased his Generation to Ninth (maximumblood pool 14), ingested 14 blood points, and had thismuch vitae in his system when the power wore off, hisblood pool would immediately drop to 11.
	4:Theft of Vitae
	*A thaumaturge using this power siphons vitae fromher subject. She need never come in contact with thesubject — blood literally streams out in a physical torrent from the subject to the Kindred (though it is oftenmystically absorbed and need not enter through themouth).System: The number of successes determines howmany blood points the caster transfers from the subject. The subject must be visible to the thaumaturgeand within 50 feet (15 meters). Using this power prevents the caster from being blood-bound, but otherwise counts as if the vampire ingested the blood herself. This power is spectacularly obvious, and Camarillaprinces justifiably consider its public use a breach ofthe Masquerade.
	5:Cauldron of Blood
	*A thaumaturge using this power boils her subject’sblood in his veins like water on a stove. The Kindredmust touch her subject, and it is this contact that simmers the subject’s blood. This power is always fatal tomortals, and causes great damage to even the mightiestvampires.System: The number of successes gained determineshow many blood points are brought to boil. The subject suffers one health level of aggravated damage foreach point boiled (individuals with Fortitude may soakthis damage using only their Fortitude dice). A singlesuccess kills any mortal, though some ghouls with access to Fortitude are said to have survived after soakingall of the aggravated damage. 

--Elemental Mastery
	*This path allows a vampire limited control over andcommunion with inanimate objects. Elemental Mastery can only be used to affect the unliving — a vampire could not cause a tree to walk by using Animatethe Unmoving, for instance. Thaumaturges who seekmastery over living things generally study paths suchas The Green Path (p. 215).
	1:Elemental Strength
	*The vampire can draw upon the strength and resilience of the earth, or of the objects around him, to increase his physical prowess without the need for largeamounts of blood. System: The player allocates a total of three temporary bonus dots between the character’s Strength and Stamina. The number of successes on the roll toactivate the power is the number of turns these dotsremain. The player may spend a Willpower point toincrease this duration by one turn. This power cannotbe “stacked” — one application must expire before thenext can be made.
	2:Wooden Tongues
	*A vampire may speak, albeit in limited fashion, withthe spirit of any inanimate object. The conversationmay not be incredibly interesting, as most rocks andchairs have limited concern for what occurs aroundthem, but the vampire can get at least a general impression of what the subject has “experienced.” Notethat events which are significant to a vampire may notbe the same events that interest a lawn gnome.System: The number of successes dictates the amountand relevance of the information that the character receives. One success may yield a boulder’s memory of aforest fire, while three may indicate that it remembersa shadowy figure running past, and five will cause therock to relate a precise description of a local Gangrel.
	3:Animate the Unmoving
	*Objects affected by this power move as the vampireusing it dictates. An object cannot take an action thatwould be completely inconceivable for something withits form — for instance, a door could not leap fromits hinges and carry someone across a street. However,seemingly solid objects can become flexible within reason: Barstools can run with their legs, guns can twistout of their owners’ hands or fire while holstered, andhumanoid statues can move like normal humans. System: This power requires the expenditure of aWillpower point with less than four successes on theroll. Each use of this power animates one object nolarger than human-sized; the caster may simultaneously control a number of animate objects equal to his Intelligence rating. Objects animated by this power stayanimated as long as they are within the caster’s line ofsight or up to an hour, although the thaumaturge cantake other actions during that time.
	4:Elemental Form
	*The vampire can take the shape of any inanimateobject of a mass roughly equal to her own. A desk, astatue, or a bicycle would be feasible, but a house or apen would be beyond this power’s capacity. System: The number of successes determines howcompletely the character takes the shape she wishesto counterfeit. At least three successes are required for the character to use her senses or Disciplines while inher altered form. This power lasts for the remainder ofthe night, although the character may return to hernormal form at will.
	5:Summon Elemental
	*A vampire may summon one of the traditional spirits of the elements: a salamander (fire), a sylph (air),a gnome (earth), or an undine (water). Some thaumaturges claim to have contacted elemental spirits ofglass, electricity, blood, and even atomic energy, butsuch reports remain unconfirmed (even as their authors are summoned to Vienna for questioning). Thecaster may choose what type of elemental he wishes tosummon and command.System: The character must be near some quantityof the classical element corresponding to the spirithe wishes to invoke. The spirit invoked may or maynot actually follow the caster’s instructions once summoned, but generally will at least pay rough attentionto what it’s being told to do. The number of successesgained on the Willpower roll determines the powerlevel of the elemental.The elemental has three dots in all Physical andMental Attributes. One dot may be added to one ofthe elemental’s Physical Attributes for each successgained by the caster on the initial roll. The Storytellershould determine the elemental’s Abilities, attacks,and damage, and any special powers it has related toits element.Once the elemental has been summoned, the thaumaturge must exert control over it. The more powerful the elemental, the more difficult a task this is. Theplayer rolls Manipulation + Occult (difficulty of thenumber of successes scored on the casting roll + 4),and the number of successes determines the degree ofcontrol:
		@-1 success		The elemental immediately attacksthe thaumaturge.
		@0 success		The elemental goes free and mayattack anyone or leave the sceneat the Storyteller’s discretion.
		@1 success		The elemental does not attack itssummoner.
		@2 successes		The elemental behaves favorablytoward the summoner and mayperform a service in exchange for payment (determined by theStoryteller).
		@3 successes		The elemental performs one service,within reason.
		@4 successes		The elemental performs any one taskfor the caster that does not jeopardizeits own existence.
		@5 successes		The elemental performs any task thatthe caster sets for it, even one thatmay take several nights to completeor that places its existence at risk.

--The Green Path
	*The Green Path deals with the manipulation ofplant matter of all sorts. Anything more complex thanan algae bloom can theoretically be controlled throughthe appropriate application of this path. Ferns, roses,dandelions, and even ancient redwoods are all validtargets for this path’s powers, and living and dead plantmatter are equally affected. While not as immediatelyimpressive as some other more widely practiced paths,the Green Path (sometimes disparagingly referred to as“Botanical Mastery”) is as subtle and powerful as thenatural world which it affects.
	1:Herbal Wisdom 
	*With a touch, a vampire can commune with thespirit of a plant. Conversations held in this manner areoften cryptic but rewarding — the wisdom and experience of the spirits of some trees surpasses that of theoracles of legend. Crabgrass, on the other hand, rarelyhas much insight to offer, but might reveal the appearance of the last person who trod upon it.System: The number of successes rolled determinesthe amount of information that can be gained from thecontact. Depending on the precise information thatthe vampire seeks, the Storyteller might require theplayer to roll Intelligence + Occult in order to interpret the results of the communication.
		@1 success		Fleeting cryptic impressions
		@2 successes		One or two clear images
		@3 successes		A concise answer to a simple query
		@4 successes		A detailed response to one or morecomplex questions
		@5 successes		The sum total of the plant-spirit’sknowledge on a given subject
	2:Speed the Season’s Passing
	*This power allows a thaumaturge to accelerate a plant’sgrowth, causing roses to bloom in a matter of minutes ortrees to shoot up from saplings overnight. Alternately,she can speed a plant’s death and decay, withering grassand crumbling wooden stakes with but a touch.System: The character touches the target plant. Theplayer rolls normally, and the number of successes determines the amount of growth or decay. One successgives the plant a brief growth spurt or simulates the effects of harsh weather, while three noticeably enlargeor wither it. With five successes, a full-grown plantsprings from a seed or crumbles to dust in a few minutes, and a tree sprouts fruit or begins decaying almostinstantaneously. If this power is used in combat, threesuccesses are needed to render a wooden weapon completely useless. Two successes suffice to weaken it, whilefive cause it to disintegrate in the wielder’s hand.
	3:Dance of Vines
	*The thaumaturge can animate a mass of vegetationup to his own size, using it for utilitarian or combat purposes with equal ease. Leaves can walk along a desktop,ivy can act as a scribe, and jungle creepers can strangle opponents. Intruders should beware of Tremere workshops that harbor potted rowan saplings.System: Any total amount of vegetation with a massless than or equal to the character’s own may be animated through this power. The plants stay active for one turnper success scored on the roll, and are under the completecontrol of the character. If used for combat purposes, theplants have Strength and Dexterity ratings each equalto half the character’s Willpower (rounded down) andBrawl ratings one lower than that of the character.Dance of Vines cannot make plants uproot themselves and go stomping about. Even the most energeticvegetation is incapable of pulling out of the soil andwalking under the effect of this power. However, 200pounds (100 kilograms) of kudzu can cover a considerable area all by itself….
	4:Verdant Haven
	*This power weaves a temporary shelter out of a sufficientamount of plant matter. In addition to providing physicalprotection from the elements (and even sunlight), the Verdant Haven also establishes a mystical barrier whichis nearly impassable to anyone the caster wishes to exclude. A Verdant Haven appears as a six-foot-tall (twometer-tall) hemisphere of interlocked branches, leaves, and vines with no discernible opening, and even to thecasual observer it appears to be an unnatural construction. Verdant Havens are rumored to have supernaturalhealing properties, hut no Kindred have reported experiencing such benefits from a stay in one. System: A character must be standing in a heavilyvegetated area to use this power. The Verdant Havensprings up around the character over the course of threeturns. Once the haven is established, anyone wishingto enter the haven without the caster’s permissionmust achieve more than the caster’s original number ofsuccesses on a single roll of Wits + Survival (difficultyequal to the caster’s Willpower). The haven lasts untilthe next sunset, or until the caster dispels or leaves it.If the caster scored four or more successes, the haven isimpenetrable to sunlight unless physically breached.
	5:Awaken the Forest Giants
	*Entire trees can be animated by a master of theGreen Path. Ancient oaks can be temporarily giventhe gift of movement, pulling their roots from the soiland shaking the ground with their steps. While not asversatile as elementals or other summoned spirits, treesbrought to ponderous life via this power display awesome strength and resilience.
	**Once the animating energy leaves a tree, it putsdown roots immediately, regardless of what it is currently standing on. A tree re-establishing itself in thesoil can punch through concrete and asphalt to findnourishing dirt and water underneath, meaning that itis entirely possible for a sycamore to root itself in themiddle of a road without any warning.
	**System: The character touches the tree to be animated. The player spends a blood point and rolls normally. If the roll succeeds, the player must spend a bloodpoint for every success. The tree stays animated for oneturn per success rolled; once this time expires, the treeputs its roots down wherever it stands and cannot beanimated again until the next night. While animated,the tree follows the character’s verbal commands tothe best of its ability. An animated tree has Strengthand Stamina equal to the caster’s Thaumaturgy rating,Dexterity 2, and a Brawl rating equal to the caster’sown. It is immune to bashing damage, and all lethaldamage dice pools are halved due to its size.

--Hands of Destruction
	*This Path is practiced most commonly by the variousthaumaturges of the Sabbat. Though it is not widelyseen outside that Sect, a few Camarilla Tremere have managed to learn the secrets of this path over the centuries. The Hands of Destruction has an infamous history, and some Tremere refuse to practice it due to rumors that it is demonic in origin.
	1:Decay
	*This power accelerates the decrepitude of its target,causing it to wither, rot, or otherwise break down. Thetarget must be inanimate, though dead organic mattercan be affected. System: If the roll is successful, the inanimate object touched by the thaumaturge ages 10 years for everyminute the Kindred touches it. If the vampire breaksphysical contact and wishes to age the object again,another blood point must be spent and another rollmust be made. This power does not affect vampires.
	2:Gnarl Wood
	*This power warps and bends wooden objects.Though the wood is otherwise undamaged, this poweroften leaves the objects completely useless. This powermay also be used to swell or contract wood, in addition to bending it into unwholesome shapes. Unlikeother powers of this path, Gnarl Wood requires merelya glance rather than physical contact. System: Fifty pounds or twenty-five kilograms of visible wood may be gnarled for each blood point spenton this power (the thaumaturge may expend as muchblood as she likes on this power, up to her per-turngenerational maximum). It is also possible to warpmultiple visible objects — like all the stakes a team ofvampire-hunters wields.
	3:Acidic Touch
	*The vampire secretes a bilious, acidic fluid from anyportion of his body. The viscous acid corrodes metal,destroys wood, and causes horrendous chemical burnsto living tissue.
	**System: The player spends one blood point to createthe acid — the blood literally transmutes into the volatile secretion. One blood point creates enough acid toburn through a quarter-inch or half a centimeter of steelplate or three inches (seven centimeters) of wood. Thedamage from an acid-augmented hand-to-hand attackis aggravated and costs one blood point per turn to use.A thaumaturge is immune to her own acidic touch.
	4:Atrophy
	*This power withers a victim’s limb, leaving only a desiccated, almost mummified husk of bone and skin. The effectsare instantaneous; in mortals, they are also irreversible. System: The victim may resist the effects of Atrophyby scoring three or more successes on a Stamina + Athletics roll (difficulty 8). Failure means the limb is permanently and completely crippled. Partial resistanceis possible: One success indicates that the difficulty ofany roll involving the use of the arm increases by two,though these effects are still permanent with regard tomortals. Two successes signify that difficulties increaseby one. Vampires afflicted by this power may spend fiveblood points to rejuvenate atrophied limbs. Mortals arepermanently crippled. This power affects only limbs orparts of limbs (arms, legs, hands); it does not work onvictims’ heads, torsos, etc.
	5:Turn to Dust
	*This fearsome power accelerates decrepitude in itsvictims. Mortals literally age at the mere touch of askilled thaumaturge, gaining decades in moments.System: Each success on the roll ages the victim by10 years. A potential victim may resist with a Stamina + Courage roll (difficulty 8), but must accumulatemore successes than the caster’s activation roll — it’san all-or-nothing affair. If the victim succeeds, he doesnot age at all. If he does not acquire more successesthan the thaumaturge, he ages the full amount. Obviously, this power, while it affects vampires, has no detrimental effect on them (they’re immortal). At most, aKindred victim grows paler and withers slightly (-1 toAppearance) for one night.

--The Lure of Flames
	*This path grants the thaumaturge the ability to conjure forth mystical flames — small fires at first, butskilled magicians may create great conflagrations. Firecreated by this path is not “natural.” In fact, many vampires believe the flames to be conjured from Hell itself.The Lure of Flames is greatly feared, as fire is one of thesurest ways to bring Final Death upon a vampire. See“Fire” (p. 297) for more information on how vampiressuffer from flame.Fire conjured by The Lure of Flames must be releasedfor it to have any effect. Thus, a “palm of flame” doesnot burn the vampire’s hand and cause an aggravatedwound (nor does it cause the caster to frenzy) — itmerely produces light. Once the flame has been released, however, it burns normally and the characterhas no control over it.System: The number of successes determines howaccurately the vampire places the flame in his desiredlocation (declared before the roll is made). One success is all that is necessary to conjure a flame in one’shand, while five successes place a flame anywhere inthe Kindred’s line of sight. Less successes mean thatthe flame appears somewhere at the Storyteller’s discretion — as a rough rule of thumb, the thaumaturgecan accurately place a flame within 10 yards or metersof themselves per success.Individual descriptions are not provided for eachlevel of this path — fire is fire, after all (including potentially causing frenzy in other vampires witnessingit). The chart below describes the path level requiredto generate a specific amount of flame. To soak thedamage at all, a vampire must have the Fortitude Discipline. Fire under the caster’s control does not harmthe vampire or cause him to frenzy, but fires started asa result of the unnatural flame affect the thaumaturgenormally.
	1:Candle (difficulty 3 to soak, onehealth level of aggravated damage/turn)
	2:Palm of flame (difficulty 4 to soak,one health level of aggravateddamage/turn)
	3:Campfire (difficulty 5 to soak,two health levels of aggravateddamage/turn)
	4:Bonfire (difficulty 7 to soak, twohealth levels of aggravated damage/turn)
	5:Inferno (difficulty 9 to soak, threehealth levels of aggravated damage/turn)

--Neptune’s Might
	*Vampires are rarely associated with the ocean inmost mythologies, and most Kindred have nothingto do with water in large quantities simply becausethey have no reason to do so. Nevertheless, Neptune’sMight has enjoyed a small, but devoted, following forcenturies among Camarilla thaumaturges. This path isbased primarily around the manipulation of standingwater, although some of its more disturbing effects depart from this principle.Once a character reaches the third level of Neptune’sMight, the player may choose to specialize in eitherfresh water or salt water. Such specialization lowers allNeptune’s Might difficulties by one when dealing withthe chosen medium but raises them by one when dealing with the opposite. Blood is considered neither freshnor salty for this purpose, and difficulties in manipulating it are unaffected.
	1:Eyes of the Sea
	*The thaumaturge may peer into a body of water andview events that have transpired on, in, or around itfrom the water’s perspective. Some older practitionersof this art claim that the vampire communes with thespirits of the waters when using this power; youngerKindred scoff at such claims.System: The number of successes rolled determineshow far into the past the character can look.
		@1 success		One day
		@2 successes		One week
		@3 successes		One month
		@4 successes		One year
		@5 successes		10 years
	**The Storyteller may require a Perception + Occultroll for the character to discern very small details in thetransmitted images. This power can only he used onstanding water; lakes and puddles qualify, but oceans,rivers, sewers, and wine glasses do not.
	2:Prison of Water
	*The thaumaturge can command a sufficiently largequantity of water to animate itself and imprison a subject. This power requires a significant amount of fluidto be fully effective, although even a few gallons can beused to shape chains of animated water.System: The number of successes scored on the rollis the number of successes the victim must score on aStrength roll (difficulty 8; Potence can add to this roll)to break free. A subject may be held in only one prisonat a time, although the caster is free to invoke multipleuses of this power upon separate victims and may dissolve these prisons at will. If a sufficient quantity ofwater (at least a bathtub’s worth) is not present, thedifficulty of the Willpower roll to activate this poweris raised by one.
	3:Blood to Water
	*The thaumaturge has now attained enough powerover water that she can transmute other liquids to thisbasic element. The most commonly seen use of thispower is as an assault; with but a touch, the victim’s blood transforms to water, weakening vampires andkilling mortals in moments.System: The character must touch her intended victim. The player rolls Willpower normally. Each successconverts one of the victim’s blood points to water. Onesuccess kills a mortal within minutes. Vampires wholose blood points to this power also suffer dice poolpenalties as if they had received an equivalent numberof health levels of injury. The water left in the target’ssystem by this attack evaporates out at a rate of oneblood point’s worth per hour, but the lost blood doesnot return.At the Storyteller’s discretion, other liquids may beturned to water with this power (the difficulty for suchan action is reduced by one unless the substance is particularly dangerous or magical in nature). The character must still touch the substance or its container to usethis power.
	4:Flowing Wall
	*Tales of vampires’ inability to cross running watermay have derived in part from garbled accounts of thispower in action. The thaumaturge can animate waterto an even greater degree than is possible with the useof Prison of Water, commanding it to rise up to form abarrier impassable to almost any being.System: The character touches the surface of astanding body of water; the player spends three Willpower points and the normal required blood point androlls normally. Successes are applied to both width andheight of the wall; each success “buys” 10 feet/threemeters in one dimension. The wall may be placed anywhere within the character’s line of sight, and must beformed in a straight line. The wall lasts until the nextsunrise. It cannot be climbed, though it can be flownover. To pass through the barrier, any supernatural being (including beings trying to pass the wall on otherlevels of existence, such as ghosts) must score at leastthree successes on a single Willpower roll (difficulty9).
	5:Dehydrate
	*At this level of mastery, the thaumaturge can directly attack living and unliving targets by removing thewater from their bodies. Victims killed by this powerleave behind hideous mummified corpses. This powercan also be used for less aggressive purposes, such asdrying out wet clothes — or evaporating puddles tokeep other practitioners of this path from using them. System: This power can be used on any target in thecharacter’s line of sight. The player rolls normally; thevictim resists with a roll of Stamina + Fortitude (difficulty 9). Each success gained by the caster translatesinto one health level of lethal damage inflicted on thevictim. This injury cannot be soaked (the resistanceroll replaces soak for this attack) but can be healednormally. Vampires lose blood points instead of healthlevels, though if a vampire has no blood points this attack inflicts health level loss as it would against a mortal. The victim of this attack must also roll Courage(difficulty equal to the number of successes scored bythe caster + 3) to be able to act on the turn followingthe attack; failure means he is overcome with agonyand can do nothing.

--Movement of the Mind
	*This path gives the thaumaturge the ability to moveobjects telekinetically through the mystic power ofblood. At higher levels, even flight is possible (but becareful who sees you…). Objects under the character’scontrol may be manipulated as if she held them — theymay be lifted, spun, juggled, or even “thrown,” thoughcreating enough force to inflict actual damage requiresmastery of at least the fourth level of this path. Somecasters skilled in this path even use it to guard theirhavens, animating swords, axes, and firearms to wardoff intruders. This path may frighten and disconcertonlookers.System: The number of successes indicates the duration of the caster’s control over the object (or subject).Each success allows one turn of manipulation, thoughthe Kindred may attempt to maintain control afterthis time by making a new roll (she need not spendadditional blood to maintain control). If the roll is successful, control is maintained. If a thaumaturge loses orrelaxes control over an object and later manipulates itagain, her player must spend another blood point, asa new attempt is being made. Five or more successeson the initial roll means the vampire can control theobject for duration of the scene.If this power is used to manipulate a living being, thesubject may attempt to resist. In this case, the casterand the subject make opposed Willpower rolls eachturn the control is exercised.Like The Lure of Flames, individual power levels arenot provided for this path — consult the chart belowto see how much weight a thaumaturge may control.
	** Once a Kindred reaches a rating of 3, she may levitate herself and “fly” at approximately running speed,no matter how much she weighs, though the weightrestrictions apply if she manipulates other objects orsubjects. Once a Kindred achieves 4, she may “throw”objects at a Strength equal to her level of mastery ofthis path.
	1:One pound/one-half kilogram
	2:20 pounds/10 kilograms
	3:200 pounds/100 kilograms
	4:500 pounds/250 kilograms
	5:1000 pounds/500 kilograms

--The Path of Conjuring
	*Invoking objects “out of thin air” has been a stapleof occult and supernatural legend since long before therise of the Tremere. This Thaumaturgical path enablespowerful conjurations limited only by the mind of thepractitioner.Objects summoned via this path bear two distinctcharacteristics. They are uniformly “generic” in thateach object summoned, if summoned again, would lookexactly as it did at first. For example, a knife would beprecisely the same knife if created twice; the two wouldbe indistinguishable. Even a specific knife — the one acharacter’s father used to threaten her — would appearidentical every time it was conjured. A rat would haverepeated “tiled” patterns over its fur, and a garbage canwould have a completely uniform fluted texture overits surface. Additionally, conjured objects bear noflaws: Weapons have no dents or scratches, tools haveno distinguishing marks, and cellphones all look likethey just came out of their packaging.The limit on the size of conjured objects appears tobe that of the conjurer: nothing larger than the thaumaturge can be created. The conjurer must also havesome degree of familiarity with the object he wishesto call forth. Simply working from a picture or imagination calls for a higher difficulty, while objects withwhich the character is intimately familiar (such as theknife described above) may actually lower the difficulty, at the Storyteller’s discretion.When a player rolls to conjure something, the successes gained on the roll indicate the quality of thesummoned object. One success yields a shoddy, imperfect creation, while five successes garner the caster anearly perfect replica.
	1:Summon the Simple Form
	*At this level of mastery, the conjurer may createsimple, inanimate objects. The object cannot have anymoving parts and may not be made of multiple materials. For example, the conjurer may summon a steelbaton, a lead pipe, a wooden stake, or a chunk of granite.System: Each turn the conjurer wishes to keep theobject in existence, another Willpower point must bespent or the object vanishes.
	2:Permanency
	*At this level, the conjurer no longer needs to payWillpower costs to keep an object in existence. Theobject is permanent, though simple objects are still allthat may be created.System: The player must invest three blood pointsin an object to make it real.
	3:Magic of the Smith
	*The Kindred may now conjure complex objects ofmultiple components and with moving parts. For example, the thaumaturge can create guns, bicycles,chainsaws, or cellphones.System: Objects created via Magic of the Smith areautomatically permanent and cost five blood pointsto conjure. Particularly complex items often require aKnowledge roll (Crafts, Science, Technology, etc.) inaddition to the basic roll.
	4:Reverse Conjuration
	*This power allows the conjurer to “banish” into nonexistence any object previously called forth via thispath.System: This is an extended success roll. The conjurer must accumulate as many successes as the originalcaster received when creating the object in question.This can also be used by the thaumaturge to banishobject she created herself with this Path.
	5:Power Over Life
	*This power cannot create true life, though it cansummon forth impressive simulacra. Creatures (andpeople) summoned with this power lack the free willto act on their own, mindlessly following the simpleinstructions of their conjurer instead. People createdin this way can be subject to the use of the Dominatepower Possession (p. 155), if desired. System: The player spends 10 blood points. Imperfect and impermanent, creatures summoned via thispath are too complex to exist for long. Within a weekafter their conjuration, the simulacra vanish into insubstantiality.

--The Path of Corruption
	*The origins of this path are hotly debated amongthose who are familiar with its intricacies. One theoryholds that its secrets were taught to the Tremere by demons and that use of it brings the practitioner dangerously close to the infernal powers. A second opinionhas been advanced that the Path of Corruption is aholdover from the days when Clan Tremere was stillmortal. The third theory, and the most disturbing tothe Tremere, is that the path originated with the Followers of Set, and that knowledge of its workings wassold to the Tremere for an unspecified price. This lastrumor is vehemently denied by the Tremere, which automatically makes it a favorite topic of discussion whenthe matter comes up.The Path of Corruption is primarily a mentally andspiritually oriented path centered on influencing thepsyches of other individuals. It can be used neither toissue commands like Dominate nor to change emotions in the moment like Presence. Rather, it producesa gradual and subtle twisting of the subject’s actions,morals, and thought processes. This path deals intimately with deception and dark desires, and those whowork through it must understand the hidden placesof the heart. Accordingly, no character may have ahigher rating in the Path of Corruption than he has inSubterfuge.
	1:Contradict
	*The vampire can interrupt a subject’s thought processes, forcing the victim to reverse his current courseof action. An Archon may be caused to execute a prisoner she was about to exonerate and release; a mortallover might switch from gentle and caring to sadisticand demanding in the middle of an encounter. The results of Contradict are never precisely known to thethaumaturge in advance, but they always take the formof a more negative action than the subject had originally intended to perform.System: This power may be used on any subjectwithin the character’s line of sight. The player rolls asper normal. The target rolls Perception + Subterfuge(difficulty equal to the number of successes scored bythe caster + 2). Two successes allow the subject to realize that she is being influenced by some outside source.Three successes let her pinpoint the source of the effect. Four successes give her a moment of hesitation,neither performing her original action nor its inverse,while five allow her to carry through with the originalaction.The Storyteller dictates what the subject’s precisereaction to this power is. Contradict cannot be used incombat or to affect other actions (at the Storyteller’sdiscretion) that are mainly physical and reflexive.
	2:Subvert
	*This power follows the same principle as does Contradict, the release of a subject’s dark, self-destructiveside. However, Subvert’s effects are longer-lasting thanthe momentary flare of Contradiction. Under the influence of this power, victims act on their own suppressed temptations, pursuing agendas that their morals or self-control would forbid them to follow undernormal circumstances.System: This power requires the character to makeeye contact (see p. 152) with the intended victim. Theplayer rolls normally. The target resists with a roll ofPerception + Subterfuge (difficulty equal to the target’sManipulation + Subterfuge). If the thaumaturge scoresmore successes, the victim becomes inclined to followa repressed, shameful desire for the length of time described below.
		@1 success		Five minutes
		@2 successes		One hour
		@3 successes		One night
		@4 successes		Three nights
		@5 successes		One week
	**The Storyteller determines the precise desire oragenda that the victim follows. It should be in keeping with the Psychological Flaws that she possesses orwith the negative aspects of her Nature (for example,a Loner desiring isolation to such an extent that shebecomes violent if forced to attend a social function).The subject should not become fixated on followingthis new agenda at all times, but should occasionally beforced to spend a Willpower point if the opportunity tosuccumb arises and she wishes to resist the impulse.
	3:Dissociate
	*“Divide and conquer” is a maxim that is well-understood by the Tremere, and Dissociate is a powerful toolwith which to divide the Clan’s enemies. This poweris used to break the social ties of interpersonal relationships. Even the most passionate affair or the oldestfriendship can be cooled through use of Dissociate, andweaker personal ties can be destroyed altogether.System: The character must touch the target. Theplayer rolls normally. The target resists with a Willpower roll (difficulty of the thaumaturge’s Manipulation + Empathy). The victim loses three dice fromall Social rolls for a period of time determined by thenumber of successes gained by the caster:
		@1 success		Five minutes
		@2 successes		One hour
		@3 successes		One night
		@4 successes		Three nights
		@5 successes		One week
	**This penalty applies to all rolls that rely on SocialAttributes, even those required for the use of Disciplines. If this power is used on a character who hasparticipated in the Vaulderie or a similar ritual, thatcharacter’s Vinculum ratings are reduced by three forthe duration of Dissociate’s effect.Dissociate’s primary effect falls under roleplayingrather than game mechanics. Victims of this powershould be played as withdrawn, suspicious, and emotionally distant. The Storyteller should feel free to require a Willpower point expenditure for a player whodoes not follow these guidelines.
	4:Addiction
	*This power is a much stronger and more potentiallydamaging form of Subvert. Addiction creates just thatin the victim. By simply exposing the target to a particular sensation, substance, or action, the caster creates a powerful psychological dependence. Many thaumaturges ensure that their victims become addicted tosubstances or thrills that only the mystic can provide,thus creating both a source of income and potentialblackmail material.System: The subject must encounter or be exposedto the sensation, substance, or action to which thecharacter wants to addict him. The thaumaturge then touches his target. The player rolls normally; the victim resists with a Self-Control/Instinct roll (difficultyequal to the number of successes scored by the caster+ 3). Failure gives the subject an instant addiction tothat object.An addicted character must get his fix at least oncea night. Every night that he goes without satisfying hisdesire imposes a cumulative penalty of one die on all ofhis dice pools (to a minimum pool of one die). The victim must roll Self-Control/Instinct (difficulty 8) everytime he is confronted with the object of his addictionand wishes to keep from indulging. Addiction lasts fora number of weeks equal to the thaumaturge’s Manipulation score.An individual may try to break the effects of Addiction. This requires an extended Self-Control/Instinctroll (difficulty of the caster’s Manipulation + Subterfuge), with one roll made per night. The addict mustaccumulate a number of successes equal to three timesthe number of successes scored by the caster. The victim may not indulge in his addiction over the timeneeded to accumulate these successes. If he does so, allaccumulated successes are lost and he must begin anewon the next night. Note that the Self-Control/Instinctdice pool is reduced every night that the victim goeswithout feeding his addiction.
	5:Dependence
	*Many former pawns of Clan Tremere claim to havefelt a strange sensation similar to depression when notin the presence of their masters. This is usually attributed to the blood bond, but is sometimes the result ofthe vampire’s mastery of Dependence. The final powerof the Path of Corruption enables the vampire to tieher victim’s soul to her own, engendering feelings oflethargy and helplessness when the victim is not in herpresence or acting to further her desires.System: The character engages the target in conversation. The player rolls normally. The victim rollsSelf-Control/Instinct (difficulty equals the number ofsuccesses scored by the caster + 3). Failure means thatthe victim’s psyche has been subtly bonded to that ofthe thaumaturge for one night per success rolled by thecaster.A bonded victim is no less likely to attack his controller, and feels no particular positive emotions toward her. However, he is psychologically addicted toher presence, and suffers a one-die penalty to all rollswhen he is not around her or performing tasks for her. Additionally, he is much less resistant to her commands, and his dice pools are halved when he attemptsto resist her Dominate, Presence (or other mental oremotional control powers), or mundane Social rolls.Finally, he is unable to regain Willpower when he isnot in the thaumaturge’s presence.

--The Path of Mars
	*Those rare Sabbat who have retained Thaumaturgical talents have turned their focus to the assistance of theSect in times of war. This path has proven useful, turning the tides of several confrontations with elder vampires. The path adopts a very martial stance, whereasother blood magics tend to have subtler, less violent effects. It is rumored that some Camarilla Tremere havelearned this path, but very few of them have the righttemperament to wield this path effectively.
	1:War Cry
	*A vampire on the attack can focus his will, makinghim less susceptible to battle fear or the powers of theundead. The vampire shouts a primal scream to start theeffect, though some thaumaturges have been known topaint their faces or cut themselves open instead.System: For the duration of one scene, the vampireadds one to his Courage Trait. Additionally, for thepurposes of hostile effects, his Willpower is consideredto be one higher (though this bonus applies only to theTrait itself, not the Willpower pool). A character mayonly gain the benefits of War Cry once per scene.
	2:Strike True
	*The vampire makes a single attack, guided by theunholy power of her Blood. This attack strikes its foeinfallibly.System: By invoking this power, the player neednot roll to see if the vampire’s attack hits — it does,automatically. Only Melee or Brawl attacks may bemade in this manner. These attacks are considered tobe one-success attacks; they offer no additional damage dice. Also, they may be dodged, blocked, or parriednormally, and the defender needs only one success (asthe attacks’ number of success is assumed to be one).Strike True has no effect if attempted on multiple attacks (dice pool splits) in a single turn from one character.
	3:Wind Dance
	*The thaumaturge invokes the power of the winds,moving in a blur. She gains a preternatural edge in avoiding her enemies’ blows, moving out of their waybefore the enemy has a chance to throw them.System: The player can dodge any number of attackswith her full dice pool in a single turn. This advantageapplies only to dodges — if the character wishes to attack and dodge, the player must still split her dice pool.This power lasts for one scene.
	4:Fearless Heart
	*The vampire temporarily augments his abilities as awarrior. Through the mystical powers of blood magic,the character becomes a potent fighting force.System: Fearless Heart grants the vampire an extrapoint in each of the Physical Attributes (Strength,Dexterity, and Stamina). These Traits may not exceedtheir generational maximums, though the player mayuse blood points to push the character’s Traits evenhigher. The effects last for one scene, and a charactermay gain its benefits only once per scene. The vampiremust spend two hours in a calm and restful state following the use of Fearless Heart, or lose a blood pointevery 15 minutes until he rests.
	5:Comrades at Arms
	*This ability extends the power of the previous abilities in the path. It allows any of the earlier effects to beapplied to a group such as a pack or War Party.System: The player chooses one of the lower-levelpowers in the path, invoking it as normal. Afterward,he touches another character and (if the roll for Comrades at Arms is successful) bestows the benefit on heras well. The same power may be delivered to any number of packmates, as long as the rolls for Comrades atArms are successful and the thaumaturge pays the appropriate blood costs.

--The Path of Technomancy
	*The newest path to be accepted by the Tremerehierarchy as part of the Clan’s official body of knowledge, the Path of Technomancy is a relatively recentinnovation, developed in the latter half of the 20thcentury. The path focuses on the control of electronicdevices, from cellphones to laptops, and its proponentsmaintain that it is a prime example of the versatility ofThaumaturgy with regards to a changing world. Moreconservative Tremere, however, state that mixingTremere magic with mortal science borders on treasonor even blasphemy, and some European Regents havegone so far as to declare knowledge of Technomancygrounds for expulsion from their chantries. The InnerCouncil did approve the introduction of the path intothe Clan’s grimoires, but has yet to voice any opinionon the conservative opposition to Technomancy.
	1:Analyze
	*Mortals are constantly developing new innovations,and any vampire who would work Technomancy mustbe able to understand that upon which he practices hismagic. The most basic power of this path allows thethaumaturge to project his perceptions into a device,granting him a temporary understanding of its purpose,the principles of its functioning, and its means of operation. This does not grant permanent knowledge,only a momentary flash of insight which fades withinminutes.System: A character must touch the device in orderto apply this power. The number of successes rolled determines how well the character understands this particular piece of equipment. One success allows a basicknowledge (on/off and simple functions), while threesuccesses grant competence in operating the device,and five successes show the character the full range ofthe device’s potential. The knowledge lasts for a number of minutes equal to the character’s Intelligence.This power can also be used to understand a nonphysical technological innovation — generally a pieceof software — at +2 difficulty. The character musttouch the computer on which the software is installed— simply holding the flash drive or CD-ROM is notenough. Software applied remotely to a device (suchas through an app store) also cannot be analyzed untilit is installed.
	2:Burnout
	*It is usually easier to destroy than to create, and sensitive electronics are no exception to this rule. Burnoutis used to cause a device’s power supply (either internal or external) to surge, damaging or destroying thetarget. Burnout cannot be used to directly injure another individual, although the sudden destruction ofa pacemaker or a car’s fuel injection control chip cancertainly create a health hazard.System: A character can use this power at a rangeof up to 10 times her Willpower in yards or meters,although a +1 difficulty is applied if she is not touchingthe target item. The number of successes determinesthe extent of the damage:
		@1 success		Momentary interruption of operation(one turn), but no permanentdamage.
		@2 successes		Significant loss of function; +1difficulty to use using the device forthe rest of the scene.
		@3 successes		The device breaks and is inoperableuntil repaired.
		@4 successes		Even after repairs, the device’scapabilities are diminished(permanent +1 difficulty to use).
		@5 successes		The equipment is a total write-off;completely unsalvageable.
	**Large enough systems, such as a server cluster ora passenger aircraft, impose a +2 to +4 difficulty (atStoryteller discretion) to affect with this power. Additionally, some systems, such as military and bankingnetworks, may be protected against power surges andspikes, and thus possess one to five dice (Storytellerdiscretion again) to roll to resist this power. Each success on this roll (difficulty 6) takes away one successfrom the Thaumaturgy roll.Burnout may be used to destroy electronic data storage, in which case three successes destroy all information on the target item, and five erase it beyond anyhope of non-magical recovery.
	3:Encrypt/Decrypt
	*Electronic security is a paramount concern of governments and corporations alike. Those thaumaturgeswho are techno-savvy enough to understand the issuesat stake have become quite enamored of this power,which allows them to scramble a device’s controls mystically, making it inaccessible to anyone else. Encrypt/Decrypt also works on electronic media; a DVD underthe influence of this power displays just snow and staticif played back without the owner’s approval. Some neonates have taken to calling this power “DRM.”System: The character touches the device or datacontainer that he wishes to encrypt. The player rollsnormally. The number of successes scored is applied asa difficulty modifier for anyone who attempts to use theprotected equipment or access the scrambled information without the assistance of the character. The castercan dispel the effect at any time by touching the targetitem and spending a point of Willpower. This power may also be used to counter anotherthaumaturge’s use of Encrypt/Decrypt. The player rollsat +1 difficulty; each success negates one of the “owner’s.”The effects of Encrypt/Decrypt last for a number ofweeks equal to the character’s permanent Willpowerrating.
	4:Remote Access
	*With this power, a skilled thaumaturge can bypassthe need for physical contact to operate a device. Thisis not a form of telekinesis; the vampire does not manipulate the item’s controls, but rather touches it directly with the power of his mind.System: This power may be used on any electronicdevice within the character’s line of sight. The number of successes rolled is the maximum number of dicefrom any relevant Ability that the character may usewhile remotely controlling the device. (For instance, ifFritz has Technology 5 and scores three successes whileusing Remote Access on a keypad lock, he can onlyapply three dots of his Technology rating to any rollsthat he makes through any use of the power.) RemoteAccess lasts for a number of turns equal to the numberof successes rolled, and can only be used on one itemat a time.If an item is destroyed while under the effects of Remote Access, the character takes five dice of bashingdamage due to the shock of having his perceptionsrudely shunted back into his own body.
	5:Telecommute
	*A progressive derivation of Remote Access, Telecommute allows a thaumaturge to project her consciousness into the Internet, sending her mind throughnetwork connections as fast as they can transfer her.While immersed in the network, she can use any otherTechnomancy power on the devices with which shemakes contact.System: The character touches any form of communications device: a cellphone, 3G-equipped netbook,Wi-Fi tablet, or anything else that is connected directlyor indirectly to the Internet. The player rolls normallyand spends a Willpower point. Telecommute lasts forfive minutes per success rolled, and may be extended by10 minutes with the expenditure of another Willpowerpoint. The number of successes indicates the maximumrange that the character can project her consciousnessaway from her body:
		@1 success		25 miles/40 kilometers
		@2 successes		250 miles/400 kilometers
		@3 successes		1000 miles/1500 kilometers
		@4 successes		5000 miles/8000 kilometers
		@5 successes		Anywhere in the world
	**While in the network, the character can apply anyother Path of Technomancy power to any device ordata with which she comes in contact. A loss of connection, either through the destruction of a part of thenetwork or simply a loss of cell signal, hurls her consciousness back to her body and inflicts eight dice ofbashing damage.A character traveling through the Internet by meansof this power can use her Path of Technomancy powersat a normal difficulty. Using any other abilities or powers while engaged thus is done at a +2 difficulty.

--The Path of the Father’s Vengeance
	*This path, based loosely on a powerful thaumaturge’sinterpretations of the Book of Nod, devotes itself to delivering justice to the race of Cainites. Each power supposedly has some precedent in the parables of the ancient book, and focuses on teaching the lessons of Cainevia the power of blood magic. Use of this path is hotlydebated in the Sabbat, as some consider it tantamountto claiming to hold Caine’s right over all vampires oneself. Camarilla vampires don’t have the same knowledgeof the Book of Nod that the Sabbat do, but the path isnot entirely unheard of in Tremere chantries.The power of this path comes not only from themagic of blood, but also incantation of verses from theBook of Nod. For any of these powers to take effect,the caster must speak the actual condemnation. For example, to invoke the third-level power, the caster muststate plainly to his target that she may eat only ashes.The subject must generally be able to hear the casterfor these powers to take effect, though writing themand showing them to the subject will do.These powers apply to vampires only. They do not affect mortals, ghouls, or any other supernatural creatures.
	1:Zillah’s Litany
	*Zillah, the wife of Caine, unknowingly drank fromher husband and sire three times, thus becoming bonded to him. This power reveals existing blood bonds andVinculi to the thaumaturge.
	**System: If the subject has any blood bonds or Vinculi to other vampires, this power reveals them to thecaster. Although the caster may not know the vampires in question, this power does reveal the names andgives rough psychic impressions of the individuals inquestion.
	2:The Crone’s Pride
	*This power inflicts the curse of the crone, who boundCaine to her as he fled his wife’s spurning. Hideouslyugly, the crone had to resort to trickery to get others tohelp or serve her.System: This power reduces the target’s Appearanceto zero. All Social rolls during this time generally fail,unless the character attempts to intimidate or browbeat the subject. This power lasts for one night.
	3:Feast of Ashes
	*Primarily used against wanton or excessive vampires,this power temporarily removes a vampire’s dependency on blood. While some would say this negates theCurse of Caine, it reduces the vampire to little more than a wretched scavenger, as he must consume literalashes, though he gains little sustenance from them.
	**System: The victim of this power can no longer consume blood, vomiting it up as he would mortal food ordrink. Instead, the victim can eat only ashes, and the“blood points” he gains from this may be used only torise each night. Ashen “blood points” may not be usedto power Disciplines, raise Attributes, or feed ghouls(though actual blood points in the character’s body atthe time this power is invoked may still be used forsuch). One blood point’s worth of ash is roughly onepint or half-liter, and any ash will do — cigarette ash,campfire leftovers, or vampire corpses destroyed by fireor sunlight. This power lasts for one week.
	4:Uriel’s Disfavor
	*This power invokes the darkness of the Angel ofDeath. All but the dimmest of light causes the subjectexcruciating pain, and some artificial forms of brightlight may even damage the vampire. Uriel deliveredGod’s curse on Caine, shielding him in the blacknessof his wings.System: The presence of any light makes the subjectuncomfortable, and bright light of any kind — flash-lights, headlights, etc. — inflict one health level of aggravated damage on the character for every turn he remains under its direct focus. Most vampires who sufferthis curse elect to sleep for the duration, hiding away inthe darkness of their havens until they can walk againamong the living without pain. This power lasts forone week.
	5:Valediction
	*Many Sabbat rightfully fear this power, though veryfew have ever seen it used. It levies a punishment forbreaking one of Caine’s greatest commandments —the ban against diablerie. As most Sabbat attain theirpower and station through some measure of diablerie,they must reconcile their beliefs with the admonitionsof Caine, and this power engenders a great sense of humility.System: When this power takes effect, the subjectimmediately reverts to her original Generation. Thischange may entail losing points in certain Traits due togenerational maximums. This power lasts for one week,after which any Traits reduced to higher-Generationmaximums return to normal. It takes three turns to speakthe full verse that implements this power’s effects.

--Thaumaturgical
	1:Countermagic
	*This is less of a path than it is a separate Discipline,as the power to resist Thaumaturgy can be taught independently of Thaumaturgy, even to those Kindred whoare incapable of mastering the simplest ritual. Thoughthe techniques of Thaumaturgical Countermagic arenot officially taught outside Clan Tremere, unofficialmethods are likely to exist. Any non-Tremere whodisplays the ability to resist Thaumaturgy quickly becomes the subject of potentially fatal scrutiny from theentirety of Clan Tremere.System: Thaumaturgical Countermagic is treated asa separate Discipline, although it uses the usual rulesfor Thaumaturgy (including experience costs and thefact that it is limited to only five levels). It cannot betaken as a character’s primary path, and a rating in itdoes not allow the character to perform rituals.The use of Thaumaturgical Countermagic is treatedas a free action in combat and does not require a splitdice pool. To oppose a Thaumaturgy power or ritual, acharacter must have a Thaumaturgical Countermagicrating equal to or greater than the rating of that power or ritual. The player spends a blood point and rolls thenumber of dice indicated by the character’s Thaumaturgical Countermagic rating (difficulty equal to thedifficulty of the power in use). Each success cancels oneof the opposing thaumaturge’s successes. Thaumaturgical Countermagic is only at full effectiveness when used against Thaumaturgy. It works withhalved dice pools against Necromancy and other mystical Disciplines, and is completely ineffective againstnon-vampiric magics and powers.Thaumaturgical Countermagic can be learned bycharacters who are unable to learn Thaumaturgy (e.g.,those with the Merit Magic Resistance). Any nonTremere character with a rating in this power automatically gains the Flaw Clan Enmity (Tremere), receiving no freebie points for it. This power cannot be takenduring character creation and cannot be spontaneouslydeveloped. Whether the character has Thaumaturgy asan in-Clan power or not, it costs the same as any othernon-Clan Discipline to learn.
	1:Two dice of countermagic. Thecharacter can attempt to cancel onlythose powers and rituals that directlyaffect him, his garments, and objectson his person.
	2:Four dice of countermagic.
	3:Six dice of countermagic. Thecharacter can attempt to cancel aThaumaturgy power that affectsanyone or anything in physicalcontact with him.
	4:Eight dice of countermagic.
	5:Ten dice of countermagic. Thecharacter can now attempt to cancela power or ritual that targets anythingwithin a radius equal to hisWillpower in yards or meters, or onethat is being used or performed withinthat same radius.

--Weather Control
	*Command over the weather has long been a staplepower of wizards both mortal and immortal, and thispath is said to predate the Tremere by millennia. Theproliferation of usage of this path outside the Clan tendsto confirm this theory; Weather Control is quite common outside the Tremere, and even outside the Camarilla. Lower levels of this path allow subtle manipulations, while higher stages of mastery allow a vampire tocall up raging storms. The area affected by this power isusually rather small, no more than three or four miles(five to six kilometers) in diameter, and the changesthe power wreaks are not always immediate.System: The number of successes rolled indicateshow long it takes the weather magic to take effect.One success indicates an entire day may pass before theweather changes to the thaumaturge’s liking, while aroll with five successes brings an almost instant effect.The difficulty of the Willpower roll necessary to invoke this power may change depending on the currentlocal weather conditions and the weather the character is attempting to create. The Storyteller should impose a bonus (-1 or -2 difficulty) for relatively minorshifts, such as clearing away a light drizzle or callinglightning when a severe thunderstorm is already raging. Conversely, a penalty (+1 or +2 difficulty) shouldbe applied when the desired change is at odds with thecurrent conditions, such as summoning the same lightdrizzle in the middle of the Sahara Desert or callingdown lightning from a cloudless sky.If the character tries to strike a specific target withlightning, the player must roll Perception + Occult(difficulty 6 if the target is standing in open terrain,8 if he is under shelter, or 10 if he is inside but near awindow) in addition to the base roll to use Thaumaturgy. Otherwise the bolt goes astray, with the relativedegree of failure of the roll determining where exactlythe lightning strikes.Effects of the power default to the maximum areaavailable unless the caster states that he’s attemptingto affect a smaller area. At Storyteller discretion, anadditional Willpower roll (difficulty 6) may be requiredto keep the change in the weather under control.Weather Control is not the sort of power that lendsitself well to indoor application. While certain ofthe path’s uses (changes of temperature, high winds,and possibly even fog) do make a certain amount ofsense in interior settings, others (precipitation of anysort, lightning) don’t. The difficulty for all rolls to useWeather Control indoors is at +2, and the Storytellershould feel free to disallow any proposed uses that don’tmake sense.Individual power descriptions are not provided forthis path, as the general principle is fairly consistent. Instead, the strongest weather phenomenon possible ateach level is listed.
	1:Fog: Vision is slightly impaired andsounds are muffled; a +1 difficulty isimposed on all Perception rolls thatinvolve sight and hearing, and theeffective range of all ranged attacksare halved.
	1:Light breeze: A +1 difficulty isimposed on all Perception rolls thatinvolve smell.
	1:Minor temperature change: It ispossible to raise or lower the localtemperature by up to 10 degreesFahrenheit or 5 degrees Celsius.
	2:Rain or snow: As Fog, butPerception rolls are impaired to amuch greater extent; the difficultymodifier for all such rolls rises to +2.In addition, the difficulty on all Driverolls increases by two.
	3:High Winds: The wind speedrises to around 30 miles per hour or50 kilometers per hour, with gusts ofup to twice that. Ranged attacksare much more difficult: + 1 tofirearm attacks and +2 to thrownweapons and archery. In addition,during fierce gusts, Dexterity rolls(difficulty 6) may be required tokeep characters from being knockedover by the winds. When gale-forcewinds are in effect, papers go flying,objects get picked up by the windsand hurled with abandon, and othersuitably cinematic effects are likely.
	3:Moderate temperature change: Thelocal temperature can be raised orlowered by up to 20 degreesFahrenheit or 10 degrees Celsius.
	4:Storm: This has the effects of bothRain and High Winds.
	5:Lightning Strike: This attack inflicts10 dice of lethal damage. Body armordoes not add to the target’s dice poolto soak this attack.
	
	
	
#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
#### Disciplines Rituals

----Necromantic Rituals
	*The rituals connected with Necromancy are a hodgepodge lot. Some have direct relations to the paths, whileothers seem to have been taught by ghosts themselves,for whatever twisted reason. All beginning necromancers gain one Level One ritual automatically, but anyothers learned must be gained through in-game play.Necromantic rituals are otherwise identical to Thaumaturgy rituals (pp. 230-240) and are learned in similarfashion, though the two are not at all compatible.System: Casting times for necromantic rituals varywidely; see the description for particulars. The playerrolls Intelligence + Occult (difficulty 3 + the level ofthe ritual, maximum 9). Success indicates the ritualproceeds smoothly, failure produces no effect, and abotch indicates something has gone horribly wrong.

--Level One Rituals
	1:Call of the Hungry Dead
	*Call of the Hungry Dead takes only 10 minutes tocast and requires a hair from the target’s head. The ritual climaxes with the burning of that hair in the flameof a black candle, after which the victim becomesable to hear snatches of conversation from across theShroud. If the target is not prepared, the voices comeas a confusing welter of howls and unearthly demands;he is unable to make out anything intelligible, and maygo briefly mad.
	1:Eldritch Beacon
	*Eldritch Beacon takes 15 minutes to cast. The material component is a green candle, the melted wax fromwhich must be collected and molded into a half-inch(1.5 cm) sphere. Whoever carries this sphere, whetherin his hand or in a pocket, is highlighted in the Shadowlands with a sickly-glowing green-white aura. Allghostly powers affect this individual with greater easeand severity. The sphere retains its power for one hourper success on the casting roll.
	1:Insight
	*This ritual allows a necromancer to stare into theeyes of a corpse and see reflected there the last thingthe dead man witnessed. The vision appears only inthe eyes of the cadaver and is visible to no one except the necromancer using Insight. The player rolls as normal as the vampire stares into the target’s eyesfor five minutes. The number of successes on the rolldetermines the clarity of the vision. A botch shows thenecromancer his own Final Death, which can provokea Rötschreck roll (see p. 299).This power cannot be used on the corpses of vampireswho have reached Golconda, or on bodies in whichboth eyes are missing or advanced decomposition hasalready occurred.
		@1 success		A basic sense of the subject’s death
		@2 successes		A clear image of the subject’s deathand the seconds preceding it
		@3 successes		A clear image, with sound, of theminutes preceding death
		@4 successes		A clear image, with sound, of thehalf-hour before the subject’s demise
		@5 successes		Full sensory perception of the hourleading up to the target’s death
	1:Knowing Stone
	*By use of her own blood and the proper rituals, anecromancer can mark a person’s spirit, allowing thevampire to see where her subject is at any time, evenafter he has died. In this fashion many of the spirithaunted vampires keep tabs on their close kin andtheir enemies.The necromancer cuts her skin or otherwise bleedsherself, and then uses the vitae to paint the name ofthe target on a consecrated stone. If the ritual is successful, she can afterward learn the target’s currentwhereabouts by dancing around the stone in a trancestate until one of the spirits whispers the desired information into her ear. The stone loses its powers on thenight of All Saints Day unless the vampire spends ablood point.
	1:Minestra di Morte
	*The necromancer obtains a piece of a dead body andsimmers it in a pot with half a quart (or half a liter)of vampiric vitae. To this stew, the necromancer addsrosemary (for remembrance), basil (the funerary herb),and salt (the alchemic principle of clarification). Afterbringing the concoction to a full boil, the necromancereats it.If the roll to activate this ritual is successful, thecharacter discovers whether the subject of the grisly rite became a wraith or Spectre after death, or if indeedshe became either. Unfortunately, this information canbe learned only about the person from whose body the“stew meat” was taken.The blood component is spent progressively throughthe ritual: If the Necromancer takes the blood fromanother Kindred, she doesn’t become partially boundfrom drinking it, nor does she add a point to her bloodpool. Similarly, if she uses her own blood, her pool decreases by a point but does not increase when she consumes the soup.Necromantic vampires without the Eat Food Merit(see p. 480) can’t keep the soup down, but can still usethe ritual and gain the information.
	1:Ritual of the Smoking Mirror
	*This ritual allows the necromancer to use an obsidianmirror to see as ghosts do. By gazing into the mirror’sebony depths, the vampire may discover an object’sflaws, assess the general health of mortals, or even reada being’s aura.At the start of the ritual, the Kindred decides whichof the ritual’s two aspects she will use — she may not use both at the same time. With Lifesight, the necromancer may read auras as if she had the level twoAuspex power Aura Perception. Deathsight, on theother hand, grants the necromancer the ability to seeghosts and the Shadowlands. It also shows the stain ofoblivion on the living, as per Eyes of the Dead (p. 174).At the Storyteller’s discretion, the Kindred may makea similar study of an inanimate object’s flaws and howto repair them, if that object has a strong link to eitherlife- or death-energies (such as a murderer’s knife or awindow box used to grow healing herbs).To perform the ritual, the necromancer grasps an obsidian mirror that has had its edge sharpened so that itcuts the flesh of whoever takes hold of it. As the vitaeflows onto the mirror’s surface, it allows the mirror’s reflective power to bridge the worlds of the living and thedead, much as it allows the necromancer herself to do.The player then rolls to activate the ritual as normal.If successful, the Necromancer may view the world asa ghost does via the reflective surface of the mirror, forone scene. On a botch, the vampire may well invokethe ire of the spirits upon whom she calls.

--Level Two Rituals
	1:Eyes of the Grave
	*This ritual, which takes two hours to cast, causes thetarget to experience intermittent visions of her deathover the period of a week. The visions come withoutwarning and can last up to a minute. The caster of theritual has no idea what the visions contain, as only thevictim sees them. Each time a vision manifests, the target must roll Courage (difficulty 7) or be reduced toquivering panic. The visions, which come randomly,can also interfere with activities such as driving, studying, shooting, and so on.Eyes of the Grave requires a pinch of soil from a freshgrave.
	1:The Hand of Glory
	*The Hand of Glory is a mummified hand used by thenecromancer to anesthetize a home’s residents and,thereby, allow him free rein to do what he will in theresidence. To create one, the necromancer wraps thesevered hand of a condemned murderer in a shroud,draws it tight to squeeze out any remaining blood, andpreserves the hand in an earthenware jar with salt, saltpeter, and long peppers. After a fortnight, the vampireremoves the hand and dries it in an oven with vervainand fern. At the end of this process, if the roll to activate the ritual garners any successes, the creation isviable.To use the Hand of Glory, the vampire first coatsthe fingertips of the mummified hand with a flammablesubstance derived from the fat of a hanged man andsets the fingers alight. The necromancer then recitesthe phrase, “Let all those who are asleep be asleep, andlet those who are awake be awake.” All mortals withina household who are affected fall into a deep sleep andcannot be roused (the hand has no effect on supernatural creatures). For each unaffected occupant of a home,one finger of the hand will refuse to light. Botches mayresult in all of the fingers being lit but no one in thehome being asleep. The hand may be extinguished atany time by the necromancer who created it. Anyoneelse wishing to douse the hand must use milk to do so— nothing else works. Once made, the Hand of Glorymay be reused indefinitely. Effects last for one scene.
	1:Occhio d’Uomo Morto
	*To cast this ritual, the necromancer needs an eyefrom a corpse whose absent soul became a ghost or Spectre. The eye is ritually prepared in a process involving incense, the new moon, and a period of midnight chanting. The chanting climaxes when the necromancer removes one of her own eyes and replaces itwith the one from the corpse (fresher is better). Kindred healing takes over at that point, sealing the eyewithin the socket.If the ritual succeeds, the Necromancer permanentlygains the Shroudsight ability (see p. 163). This abilityis always active and does not require a roll.Furthermore, if it was a Spectre’s corpse, the vampirecan hear the vague murmuring of any Spectres in thearea. This ability isn’t very precise; rather than mindreading, it’s more like trying to overhear a low-voicedconversation in the next room. With a Perception +Occult roll, the Necromancer can glean a very vagueimpression of what nearby Spectres are up to. Botchingthis roll may well earn the necromancer a new derangement (at the Storyteller’s discretion), as the whisperscreep into the caster’s subconscious.This ritual has some major drawbacks, the first beingthat its proper result is hideously ugly. Unless the vampire wears sunglasses or finds some other way to conceal her eye, her Appearance is reduced by one dot.Also, dead or rotted tissue is not the best for normalperception. Any mundane visual Perception rolls are at+1 difficulty (possibly more if the corpse had bad eyesight in life). On the other hand, since the eye offersa window into a different soul than the necromancer,it offers some protection against powers requiring eyecontact. These Disciplines are used against the deadeyed necromancer at +1 difficulty.Most importantly, however, the ghost whose bodywas desecrated knows it, and very likely hates it. Theghost can find the necromancer possessing his eye anywhere, and all ghostly powers used against the necromancer by that particular ghost are at –1 difficulty.
	1:Puppet
	*Used primarily to facilitate conversations with therecently departed, though also applied as a method ofpsychological torture, Puppet prepares a subject (willing or unwilling) as a suitable receptacle for ghostlypossession. Over the course of one hour, the necromancer smears grave soil across the subject’s eyes, lips, andforehead. For the remainder of the night, any wraithattempting to take control of the subject gains two automatic successes. The ritual’s effects remain even ifthe soil is washed off.	1:The Ritual of Pochtli
	*This ritual cannot be cast by itself, but only in conjunction with another Necromantic ritual, or with theheavily ritualized use of a Necromantic path. The action of the ritual is this: Two or more Kindred necromancers restrain a mortal vessel and inflict incisions inthe shape of blasphemous symbols (typically subvertedEgyptian hieroglyphs or Aztec symbols). They thendrink from these injuries. Each participating Necromancer must make his own cut and drink from no other cut. Thereafter, the Necromantic power the Kindredseek to employ gains the benefit of all the participants’knowledge. This ritual makes it possible for Necromancers to create truly fearsome feats of death magic.The player rolls to activate this ritual as normal. Ifthe roll succeeds, the Kindred who have participatedin the ritual may work together on the path or ritualthe Ritual of Pochtli is intended to assist, and playersshare successes. Note that the primary application ofNecromancy requires its own roll, and that successes(and failures) garnered by the group are pooled. AllKindred participating in the ritual must know the Ritual of Pochtli as well as the ritual or path power thegroup seeks to enact.The downside of this power is that a single player’sbotch negates the successes of the entire group, resulting in a horrific failure for all the ritual workers.
	1 Two Centimes
	*The necromancer ceremonially “kills” a mortal, laying him out on a pallet and putting pennies on his eyes.The mortal’s soul journeys to the Underworld, whichhe perceives, initially at least, as a way-station. Themortal can interact with the souls of the dead and travel elsewhere in the Underworld, while also retainingthe power to speak to the vampire and describe whathe’s experiencing. While in the Underworld, however,the subject’s soul cannot affect the environment. Although he may talk to other spirits, he may not physically interact with them or their surroundings — he isa “ghost among ghosts,” as it were. Minions may voluntarily undergo the ritual to assist necromancers, orthe vampire may use Two Centimes to terrify unwilling victims.

--Level Three Rituals
	1:Blood Dance
	*The Blood Dance allows a ghost to communicatewith a living relative. Necromancers sometimes perform this ritual for people in exchange for money orfavors.The vampire must dance and chant for two hours,calling forth the right spirit and entreating all otherghosts to leave the area. While dancing, the vampirepours colored sands and ocean salt on the ground in aprecise pattern and then makes the link between theliving person and the deceased. If successful, the ghost“appears” within the necromancer’s sand-sigil and theliving person can communicate with her for one hour.Failure means the spirit could not be contacted.
	1:Divine Sign
	*Upon learning a person’s birth date, the necromancer’s player may roll to activate this ritual. If successful,the Kindred may use this to predict the target’s nextcourse of action, allowing him to deal with it accordingly. The effect on ghosts is quite different: Instead,the ritual imparts upon the necromancer so intimatean understanding of the wraith in question that it actsas a connection to the ghost, making it easier to invokeother Necromancy effects on that spirit. For story purposes, it’s the equivalent to holding one of that wraith’sfetters (see Ritual of the Unearthed Fetter, below).
	1:Din of the Damned
	*This ritual is similar to the Level One Ritual Callof the Hungry Dead (see p. 177) in that it makes thesounds of the Underworld audible in the physical realm.However, Din of the Damned is an area-effecting ritual used to ward a room against eavesdropping. Overthe course of half an hour, the necromancer draws anunbroken line of ash from a crematorium along theroom’s walls (this line may pass over doorframes to allow entrance and egress). For the rest of the night, anyattempt to listen in on events inside the room, whethersimple (such as a glass to the wall), electronic (like alaser microphone), or mystic (including powers such asHeightened Senses), requires the eavesdropper to scoremore successes in a Perception + Occult roll (difficulty7) than the caster of the ritual scored. Failure to beatthis mark gives the listener an earful of ghostly wailingand moaning and the sound of howling winds; a botchdeafens him for the rest of the night.
	1:Nightmare Drums
	*The necromancer using this ritual sends the dead tohaunt the dreams of an enemy, using the ghosts to drivean opponent slowly insane. Once the ritual is cast, thevampire has no control over this power, except to stopit from continuing. The shape of the nightmares and the images that assault the target are not under thecontrol of the necromancer; they are under the controlof the ghosts who actually do the haunting.The necromancer uses his own blood and a personalpossession of the target’s in this ritual. Once the itemhas been coated with blood, the vampire must burn theitem, sending a ghostly icon of it to the Shadowlandsboth as an identifying badge and as a reward to theghosts who agree to haunt the target. While the itemburns, the necromancer (and assistants, if available)pound out a relentless beat on gigantic drums of human skin. The drums are inaudible in this realm butthunderous in the home of the dead. To silence thedeafening drums, the ghosts resignedly agree to negotiate with the necromancer. They promise to send nightmares to the victim for as long as the vampire demands,in return for a favor. Their request normally runs alongthe lines of passing a message to a living relative or exacting revenge against someone who slighted them.
	1:Ritual of The Unearthed Fetter
	*This ritual requires that a necromancer have a finger bone from the skeleton of the particular ghost he’sinterested in. When the ritual is cast, the finger bonebecomes attuned to something vitally important to thewraith, the possession of which by the necromancermakes the casting of Necromantic powers against thatghost much easier (see the Sepulchre Path, p. 160, foran example). Most necromancers take the attuned finger bone and suspend it from a thread, allowing it toact as a sort of supernatural compass and following it tothe special item in question.Ritual of the Unearthed Fetter takes three hours tocast properly. It requires both the name of the ghosttargeted and the finger bone already mentioned, aswell as a chip knocked off a gravestone or other marker(not necessarily the marker of the bone’s former owner). During the course of the ritual the stone crumblesto dust, which is then sprinkled over the finger bone. roll against difficulty 7 (if done outside of combat, thedifficulty is only 6). During the next combat turn, shebites through her own lips (taking a level of bashingdamage) and spits (spending one blood point). Thenthe normal ritual roll is made to see whether the powertakes effect.
	1:Tempesta Scudo
	*Unlike most rituals, Tempesta Scudo can be castspeedily. The necromancer performs a short and awkward dance that ends with her biting through her ownlip and spitting the blood in a circle around her. Allghosts’ actions within the circle of blood are made at+2 difficulty. To cast this ritual successfully, the necromancer mustspend one combat turn performing the dance. At theend of the turn, she makes a Dexterity + Performance

--Level Four Rituals
	1:Baleful Doll
	*A baleful doll is a powerful figure that is linked directly to the spirit of the target. This doll must be handcrafted, and is only finished when it has been paintedwith the blood of the necromancer and dressed in somearticle of clothing from the victim (which should beunwashed for a better connection). Once the doll hasbeen cursed, the vampire can use it to cause physicaldamage to the target. If the doll is injured (often withpins or other items), the victim takes six dice of bashing damage. If the doll is destroyed, the target sufferssix dice of lethal damage.The necromancer must craft the doll, using ritualchants throughout the process. This normally takesfour to five hours. The player rolls Stamina + Crafts(difficulty 8) to succeed in this part of the ritual — adoll that does not resemble its victim is useless for thepurposes of this ritual, though some necromancers sellfailures as “authentic voodoo dolls” to tourists.
	1:Bastone Diabolico
	*Casting this ritual is tricky because it requires theremoval of a leg bone from a living person. The donormust survive the removal, at least for a little while. Thebone is then submerged in molten lead. Once it cools,the thin lead coating is inscribed with various runes.The necromancer then uses this metal-shod boneto beat its donor to death while repeating a droningGreek chant. With a successful roll, this ritual produces a bastonediabolico or “devil stick.” The stick can be activated byanyone who holds it and expends a point of Willpower.Activation lasts for a scene, and during that time anyghost hit with the devil stick loses a point from its Passion pool (see p. 385). In addition to its normal effects,this club does an additional die of damage when usedagainst the walking dead (not vampires), and suchdamage is aggravated. Unfortunately for the necromancer, ghosts can sensethat the bastone diabolico is bad news, even if they don’tknow exactly what the thing does. They tend to stay away from anybody carrying one, which means that allrolls for such a character to use powers that summon orattract ghosts occur at +1 difficulty.
	1:Cadaver’s Touch
	*By chanting for three hours and melting a wax doll inthe shape of the target, the necromancer turns a mortaltarget into a corpselike ruin. As the doll loses the lastof its form, the target becomes cold and clammy. Hispulse becomes weak and thready, and his flesh pale andchalky. For all intents and purposes, he becomes a reasonable facsimile of the walking dead. This can havesome adverse effects in social situations (+2 difficultyon all Social rolls). The effects of the ritual wear offonly when the wax of the doll is permitted to solidify.If the wax is allowed to boil off, the spell is broken.
	1:Peek Past the Shroud
	*This hour-long ritual enchants a handful of ergotfungi mold to act as a catalyst for second sight. By eating a pinch of the mold, a subject gains the benefits ofShroudsight (p. 163) for a number of hours equal to thenecromancer’s Stamina score. Three doses of the enchanted ergot are created for every success on the roll.Ergot is normally poisonous to some degree; this ritualremoves its toxic properties. However, a botch rendersthe ergot highly and instantaneously toxic, inflictingeight dice of lethal damage on any subject who ingestsit — including vampires.
	1:Ritual of Xipe Totec
	*To perform the ritual, the Kindred removes his victim’s top layer of skin with an obsidian dagger, taking care to damage the skin as little as possible in theprocess. The victim must survive this process (thoughshe may well die of blood loss shortly after the ritualif not seen to properly). He then drains the victim’sblood into a large ceremonial golden bowl. There theblood is mixed with octli, amaranth flower, and otheringredients. When imbibed by the necromancer, thismixture causes him to sweat a glistening sheen of blood(equal to one blood point). The Kindred then dons theskin of his victim, which on a successful roll absorbsthe Kindred vitae and begins to heal, forming a secondskin over the vampire’s own. The victim needs to be ofsimilar stature — otherwise, the features become distorted and the disguise is rendered useless. This poweralso has no effect on supernatural creatures (althoughit can affect ghouls).Under normal visual scrutiny, the ruse is flawless. Ofcourse, it imparts none of the victim’s knowledge ormannerisms (and does nothing to mask the Kindred’sown undead nature). Therefore, it works best for situations in which contact with friends and family maybe minimized. To preserve the skin’s condition, theKindred must bathe it in a blood point’s worth of vitae nightly. When the necromancer removes the skin(which causes one level of unsoakable lethal damageto the user and must be done with the same knife usedto flay the victim in the first place), it is ruined in theprocess.

--Level Five Rituals
	1:Chill of Oblivion
	*Performed over the course of 12 hours (reduced byone hour per success on the casting roll), this ritualinfuses the necromancer or a willing subject with thechill of the grave. The ritual’s material component is aone-foot (half-meter) cube of ice, which is slowly melted on the subject’s chest (inflicting three health levelsof bashing damage on mortal subjects). The subjectmust lie naked on bare earth for the entire durationof the ritual. Once the ritual is completed, its effectsremain for a number of nights equal to the caster’s Occult rating.An individual affected by Chill of Oblivion treatsaggravated damage from fire and high temperatures asif it were lethal damage. Furthermore, he may attemptto extinguish any fire by rolling Willpower (difficulty9); each success reduces the fire’s soak difficulty (seep. 297) by 1, and a fire with a soak difficulty of 2 dwindles to glowing embers.However, this ritual has several drawbacks. Firstand foremost, the subject’s aura is laced with writhingblack veins that resemble those left by diablerie, andmay well be mistaken for such by any observer who isnot familiar with this ritual. The subject also radiates apalpable aura of cold that extends to about arm’s lengthfrom him; this can be extremely disconcerting to mortals, though it causes no damage, and its game effectsmirror those of the Flaws Touch of Frost (p. 494) andEerie Presence (p. 495). Finally, the mystical nimbus ofthe ritual draws hostile ghosts to the subject, who mayplague him with unwholesome acts.
	1:Dead Man’s Hand
	*The necromancer takes a rag stained in the blood,sweat, or tears of the intended victim. She takes afreshly severed human hand (which can come eitherfrom a corpse or a living “donor”) and closes it around the rag. As the hand decomposes, so does the victim.His flesh bloats, turns gray and then green, then startsto slough off. The victim’s brain remains fresh until thevery end, so he can see the maggots writhe in the putrescent rack of meat that once was his healthy body.The necromancer makes the standard roll and spendstwo blood points for each point of Stamina (and Fortitude) possessed by the victim. The victim loses healthlevels according to the timetable below. Only the removal of the rag from the hand can stop the process.If this happens, health levels return, also according tothe chart below.
		Health Level		Time Until Next Loss
		Bruised		12 hours
		Hurt			12 hours
		Injured		Six hours
		Wounded		Three hours
		Mauled			One hour
		Crippled		30 minutes
		Incapacitated		12 hours
	**Mortal characters who suffer more than 12 hours ofincapacitation die, while Kindred who remain Incapacitated for more than 12 hours succumb to torpor.
	1:Esilio
	*Like Tempesta Scudo, Esilio is a quick and dirty ritual.The necromancer simply speaks five syllables. No onecan identify the casting language, but according to theritual’s oblique history, the language is what God gavehumankind before the confusion of Babel. The legendfurther states that while the particular meaning of thewords is lost, they are what Caine’s father said to himwhile exiling him to Nod.Regardless of the truth of the matter, the Words ofExile are not spoken lightly. When the ritual is castsuccessfully, it opens a hole within reality itself — a ripbetween the lands of the living and the darkest depthsof the Underworld. This tear is invisible to normal vision, but to Witness of Death or Shroudsight it lookslike a black vortex opening within the vampire’s ownbody (the very few unfortunate enough to look into thegap with high levels of Auspex are generally unwilling or unable to discuss it). Any ghost clutched to theKindred’s chest is instantly torn to shreds. Grabbing aghost in this fashion requires a Clinch or Tackle maneuver. Destroyed spirits don’t come back for at least a month, if ever. A wraith destroyed in this fashiontends to return as a Spectre, if it returns at all.
	**The necromancer may clutch and destroy a numberof spirits equal to the number of successes she rolled.After that, the vortex closes. It closes at the end of thescene if it hasn’t already. Of course, using one’s body as a portal between ourworld and what some people might call Hell is neithersimple nor healthy. For starters, it costs a blood pointand a point of Willpower (which does not give an automatic success on the ritual roll). More importantly,each success rolled inflicts a level of unsoakable lethaldamage on the necromancer. Most significantly, everyuse of Esilio permanently reduces the necromancer’sHumanity by one point if he follows that morality, andmay impact other Paths at the Storyteller’s discretion.
	1:Grasp the Ghostly
	*Requiring a full six hours of chanting, this ritual allows a necromancer to bring an object from the Underworld into the real world. It’s not simple, however— a wraith may object to having his possessions stolenand fight back. Furthermore, the object taken must bereplaced by a material item of roughly equal mass, otherwise the target of the ritual snaps back to its previous,ghostly existence.Objects taken from the Underworld tend to fade awayafter about a year. Only items recently destroyed in thereal world (called “relics” by ghosts) may be recapturedin this manner. Artifacts created by wraiths themselveswere never meant to exist outside the Underworld, andvanish on contact with the living world.

----Thaumaturgy Rituals
	*Rituals are Thaumaturgical formulas, meticulouslyresearched and prepared, that create powerful magicaleffects. Rituals are less versatile than paths, as their effects are singular and straightforward, but they are better suited to specific ends.All thaumaturges have the ability to use rituals,though each individual ritual must be learned separately. By acquainting herself with the arcane practiceof blood magic, the caster gains the capacity to manipulate these focused effects.Thaumaturgical rituals are rated from 1 to 5, eachlevel corresponding to both the level of mastery ofThaumaturgy the would-be caster must possess and therelative power of the ritual itself. Unless stated otherwise, a ritual requires five minutes per level to cast.Casting rituals requires a successful Intelligence+ Occult roll, for which the difficulty equals 3 + thelevel of the ritual (maximum 9). Only one success isrequired for a ritual to work, though certain spells mayrequire more successes or have variable effects basedon how well the caster’s roll goes. Should a roll to activate a ritual fail, the Storyteller is encouraged to create strange occurrences or side effects, or even make itappear that the ritual was successful, only to reveal itsfailure at a later time. A botched ritual roll may evenindicate a catastrophic failure or summon an ill-tempered demon.Rituals sometimes require special ingredients or reagents to work — these are noted in each ritual’s description. Common components include herbs, animalbones, ceremonial items, feathers, eye of newt, tongueof toad, etc. Acquiring magical components for a powerful ritual may form the basis for an entire story.At the first level of Thaumaturgy, the vampire automatically gains a single Level One ritual. To learnfurther rituals, the thaumaturge must find someoneto teach him, or learn the ritual from a scroll, tome,or other archive. Learning a new ritual can take anywhere from a few nights (Level One ritual) to monthsor years (Level Five ritual). Some mystics have studiedindividual rituals for decades, or even centuries.

--Level One Rituals
	1:Bind the Accusing Tongue
	*This ancient ritual is said to have been one of thefirst developed by the Tremere and a primary reason for the lack of cohesive opposition to their expansion.Bind the Accusing Tongue lays a compulsion uponthe subject that prevents him from speaking ill of thecaster, allowing the thaumaturge to commit literallyunspeakable acts without fear of reprisal.System: The caster must have a picture or other image or effigy of the ritual’s target, a lock of the target‘shair, and a black silken cord. The caster winds the cordaround the hair and image while intoning the ritual’svocal component. Once the ritual is complete, the target must score more successes on a Willpower roll (difficulty of the caster‘s Thaumaturgy rating + 3) than thecaster scored in order to say anything negative aboutthe caster. The ritual lasts until the target succeeds atthis roll or the silk cord is unwound, at which point theimage and the lock of hair crumble to dust.
	1:Blood Rush
	*This ritual allows the vampire to create the sensationof drinking blood in himself without actually feeding.The ritual can be used for pleasure, but it is more often used to prevent frenzy when confronted with freshblood. The vampire must carry the fang of a predatoryanimal on his person for this ritual to work.System: Performance of the ritual results in theBeast being kept in check automatically. Blood Rushallows the vampire to resist hunger-based frenzy for upto one hour, at which point the Cainite feels hungryagain (assuming he did before). This ritual takes onlyone turn to enact.
	1:Communicate with Kindred Sire
	*By enacting this ritual, the caster may join mindswith her sire, speaking telepathically with him overany distance. The communication may continue untilthe ritual expires or until either party ends the conversation. The caster must possess an item once owned byher sire for the ritual to work.System: The caster must meditate for 30 minutesto create the connection. Conversation may be maintained for 10 minutes per success on the activationroll.
	1:Defense of the Sacred Haven
	*This ritual prevents sunlight from entering an areawithin 20 feet (six meters) of this ritual’s casting. Amystical darkness blankets the area, keeping the baleful light at bay. Sunlight reflects off windows or magically fails to pass through doors or other portals. Toinvoke this ritual’s protection, the caster draws sigils in her own blood on all the affected windows and doors.The ritual lasts as long as the thaumaturge stays withinthe 20-foot (6-meter) radius.System: This ritual requires one hour to perform,during which the caster recites incantations and inscribes glyphs. One blood point is required for thisritual to work.
	1:Deflection of Wooden Doom
	*This ritual protects the caster from being staked,whether she is resting or active. While this ritual is ineffect, the first stake that would pierce the vampire’sheart disintegrates in the attacker’s hand. A stakemerely held near the caster is unaffected; for this ritualto work, the stake must actively be used in an attemptto impale the vampire.System: The caster must surround herself with a circle of wood for a full hour. Any wood will work: furniture, sawdust, raw timber, 2’ x 4’s, whatever. The circlemust remain unbroken, however. At the end of thehour, the vampire places a wooden splinter under hertongue. If this splinter is removed, the ritual is nullified. This ritual lasts until the following dawn or dusk.
	1:Devil’s Touch
	*Thaumaturges use this ritual to place curses uponmortals who earn their ire. Using this ritual marks anindividual invisibly, causing all those who come incontact with him to receive him poorly. The mortal istreated as the most loathsome individual conceivable,and all who deal with him do everything in their powerto make him miserable. Even bums spit at an afflictedindividual, and children taunt him and barrage himwith vulgarities.System: The effects of this ritual last one night, disappearing as the sun rises. The mortal (it doesn’t workon vampires) must be present when the ritual is invoked, and a penny must be placed somewhere on hisperson (in a pocket, shoe, etc.).
	1:Domino of Life
	*A vampire wanting or needing to simulate a humancharacteristic can do so once Domino of Life is cast. Forone entire night, the vampire can eat, breathe, maintain a normal body temperature, assume a human fleshtone, or display some other single trait of humankindshe desires. Note that only one trait can be replicatedin this fashion. The vampire must have a vial of freshhuman blood on his person to maintain this ritual. System: Using this ritual adds one die to the caster’sdice pools when attempting to pass as human. Unless onlookers are especially wary, the Domino of Lifeshould fool them into thinking the caster is mortal —not that they should have any reason to suspect otherwise.
	1:Engaging the Vessel of Transference
	*This ritual enchants a container to fill itself withblood from any living or unliving being who holds it,replacing the volume of blood taken with an equalamount previously held inside the container. Whenthe ritual is enacted, the vessel (which must be betweenthe size of a small cup and a one-gallon/four-liter jug) issealed full of the caster’s blood and inscribed with theHermetic sigil which empowers the ritual. Wheneveran individual touches the container with his bare skin,he feels a slight chill against his flesh but no furtherdiscomfort. The container continues to exchange theblood it contains until it is opened. The two most common uses of this ritual are to covertly create a bloodbond and to obtain a sample of a subject’s blood forritual or experimental purposes.System: This ritual takes three hours to enact (reduced by 15 minutes for each success on the castingroll) and requires one blood point (although not necessarily the caster’s blood), which is sealed inside thecontainer. The ritual only switches blood between itself and a subject if it is touched with bare skin — eventhin cotton gloves keep it from activating.Individuals with at least four dots in Occult recognize the Hermetic sigil with two successes on an Intelligence + Occult roll (difficulty 8).
	1:Illuminate the Trail of Prey
	*This ritual causes the path of the subject’s passingto glow in a manner that only the vampire can see.The tracks shine distinctly, but only to the eyes of thecaster. Even airplane trajectories and animal tracksshine with unhealthy light. The ritual is nullified if thetarget wades through or immerses himself in water, orif he reaches the destination of his journey. The castermust burn a length of white satin ribbon that has beenin her possession for at least 24 hours for this ritual totake effect.System: The thaumaturge must have a mental picture of or know the name of her prey. The individual’swake glows with a level of brightness dependent onhow long it has been since he passed that way — oldtracks burn less brightly, while fresh tracks blaze.
	1:Incantation of the Shepherd
	*This ritual enables the caster to mystically locate allmembers of his herd. While intoning the ritual’s vocalcomponent, he spins in a slow circle with a glass objectof some sort held to each of his eyes. At the end of theritual, he has a subliminal sense of the direction anddistance to each of his regular vessels. System: This ritual gives the character the location(relative to him) of every member of his Herd. If hedoes not have the Herd Background, Incantation of theShepherd locates the closest three mortals from whomthe caster has fed at least three times each. This ritualhas a maximum range of 10 miles or 15 kilometers timesthe character’s Herd Background, or five miles (eightkilometers) if he has no points in that Background.
	1:Purity of Flesh
	*The caster cleanses her body of all foreign material with this ritual. To perform it, she meditates onbare earth or stone while surrounded by a circle of 13sharp stones. Over the course of the ritual, the casteris slowly purged of all physical impurities: dirt, alcohol,drugs, poison, bullets lodged in the flesh, and tattooink are equally affected, slowly rising to the surface ofthe caster’s skin and flaking away as a gritty gray filmthat settles within the circle. Any jewelry, makeup, orclothes that the caster is wearing are also dissolved.System: The player spends one blood point beforerolling. Purity of Flesh removes all physical items fromthe caster’s body, but does not remove enchantments,mind control, or diseases of the blood.
	1:Wake with Evening’s Freshness
	*This ritual allows a vampire to awaken at any signof danger, especially during the day. If any potentiallyharmful circumstances arise, the caster immediatelyrises, ready to face the problem. This ritual requires theashes of burned feathers to be spread over the area inwhich the Kindred wishes to sleep.System: This ritual must be performed immediatelybefore the vampire goes to sleep for the day. Any interruption to the ceremonial casting renders the ritual ineffective. If danger arises, the caster awakens and mayignore the Humanity/Path dice pool limit rule for thefirst two turns of consciousness. Thereafter, the penaltytakes effect, but the thaumaturge will have already risen and will be able to address problematic situations.
	1:Widow’s Spite
	*This ritual causes a pain, itch, or other significant(but not deadly) sensation in the subject. Similar ineffect to legendary “voodoo doll” effects, this ritual isused more out of scorn or malice than actual enmity. Infact, it requires a wax or cloth doll that resembles thetarget, which bleeds when the power takes effect. System: The ceremonial doll must resemble, however rudely, the victim of the ritual. It produces no mechanical effect, other than a simple physical stimulus.The caster may determine where on the subject’s bodythe pain or itch appears.

--Level Two Rituals
	1:Blood Walk
	*A thaumaturge casts this ritual on a blood samplefrom another vampire. Blood Walk is used to trace thesubject’s Kindred lineage and the blood bonds in whichthe subject is involved.System: This ritual requires three hours to cast, reduced by 15 minutes for each success on the roll. Itrequires one blood point from the subject. Each successallows the caster to “see back” one Generation (to alimit of the Fourth Generation — the Third Generation do not give up their secrets so easily), giving thecaster both the true name of the ancestor and an imageof his face. The caster also learns the Generation andClan or bloodline from which the subject is descended.With three successes, the caster also learns the identities of all parties with whom the subject shares a bloodbond, either as regnant or thrall.
	1:Burning Blade
	*Developed during Clan Tremere’s troubled inception, Burning Blade allows a caster to temporarily enchant a melee weapon to inflict unhealable wounds onsupernatural creatures. While this ritual is in effect, theweapon flickers with an unholy greenish flame.System: This ritual can only be cast on melee weapons. The caster must cut the palm of her weapon handduring the ritual — with the weapon if it is edged, otherwise with a sharp stone. This inflicts a single healthlevel of lethal damage, which cannot be soaked butmay be healed normally. The player spends three bloodpoints, which are absorbed by the weapon. Once theritual is cast, the weapon inflicts aggravated damage onall supernatural creatures for the next few successful attacks, one per success rolled. Multiple castings of Burning Blade cannot be “stacked” for longer durations. Furthermore, the wielder of the weapon cannot chooseto do normal damage and “save up” aggravated strikes— each successful attack uses one aggravated strikeuntil there are none left, at which point the weaponreverts to inflicting normal damage.
	1:Donning the Mask of Shadows
	*This ritual renders its subject translucent; her formappears dark and smoky, and the sounds of her footsteps are muffled. While it does not create true invisibility, the Mask of Shadows makes the subject muchless likely to be detected by sight or hearing.System: This ritual may be simultaneously cast on anumber of subjects equal to the caster’s Occult rating;each individual past the first adds five minutes to thebase casting time. Individuals under the Mask of Shadows can only be detected if the observer possesses apower (such as Auspex) sufficient to penetrate Obfuscate 3. The Mask of Shadows lasts a number of hoursequal to the number of successes rolled when it is castor until the caster voluntarily lowers it.
	1:Eyes of the Night Hawk
	*This ritual allows the vampire to see through theeyes of a bird, and to hear through its ears. The bird chosen must be a predatory bird, and the vampire musttouch it when initiating this ritual. At the end of thisritual, the caster must put out the bird’s eyes, or sufferblindness herself.System: The vampire is able to mentally controlwhere the bird travels for the duration of the ritual.The bird will not necessarily perform any other actionthan flight — the caster cannot command it to fight,pick up and return an object, or scratch a target. Thebird returns to the vampire after finishing its flight. Ifthe vampire does not put out the bird’s eyes, she suffersa three-night period of blindness. This ritual ceases effect at sunrise.
	1:Machine Blitz
	*Machines go haywire when this ritual is cast. Ittakes effect instantly and lasts as long as the vampireconcentrates on it. This ritual may be used to kill carengines, erase flash drives, drain the battery of a cellphone, stop life-support machines, et cetera. Essentially, Machine Blitz stops any machine more complexthan a rope-and-pulley. The thaumaturge must have ascrap of rusted metal in her possession for this ritual towork, though some vampires use a variant that requiresa knot steeped in human saliva to be untied. System: This ritual only stops machines; it does notgrant any control over them. The effects of this ritualare invisible and appear to be coincidental.
	1:Principal Focus of Vitae Infusion
	*This ritual imbues a quantity of blood within anobject small enough for the vampire to carry in bothhands. (The object may not be any larger than this,though it may be as small as a dime.) After the ritualis conducted, the object takes on a reddish hue andbecomes slick to the touch. At a mental command, thecaster may release the object from its enchantment,causing it to break down into a pool of blood. Thisblood may serve whatever purpose the vampire desires;many thaumaturges wear enchanted baubles to ensurethey have emergency supplies of vitae.System: An object may store only one blood point ofvitae. If a Kindred wishes to make an infused focus foran ally, she may do so, but the blood contained withinmust be her own. (If the ally then drinks the blood, heis one step closer to the blood bond). The ally must bepresent at the creation of the focus.
	1:Recure of the Homeland
	*The vampire calls on the power of the earth to healgrave wounds she may have received. The thaumaturgemust use at least a handful of dirt from the city or townof her mortal birth and recite a litany of her mortalfamily tree as she casts this ritual.System: The Cainite must mix the earth with twopoints of her own blood to make a healing paste. Onehandful will heal one aggravated wound, and only onehandful can be used per night. This ritual can only beused on the vampire who knows it.
	1:Ward Versus Ghouls
	*Wary Tremere created this ritual to protect themselves from the minions of vengeful rivals. By invokingthis ritual, the caster creates a glyph that causes greatpain to any ghouls who come in contact with it. TheKindred pours a point’s worth of blood over the object he wishes to ward (a piece of parchment, a coin,a doorknob, etc.), and recites the incantation, whichtakes 10 minutes. In 10 hours, the magical ward is complete, and will inflict excruciating pain on any ghoulunfortunate enough to touch the warded object.System: Ghouls who touch warded objects sufferthree dice of lethal damage. This damage occurs againif the ghoul touches the object further; indeed, a ghoulwho consciously wishes to touch a warded object mustspend a point of Willpower to do so. This ritual wards only one object — if inscribed onthe side of a car, the ward affects only that door orfender, not the whole car. Wards may be placed onweapons, even bullets, though this usually works beston small-caliber weapons. Bullets often warp upon firing, however, and for a ward to remain intact on a firedround, the player needs five successes on the Firearmsroll.
	1:Warding Circle versus Ghouls
	*This ritual is enacted in a manner similar to that ofWard versus Ghouls, but creates a circle centered onthe caster into which a ghoul cannot pass without being burned. The circle can be made as large and as permanent as the caster desires, as long as she is willing topay the necessary price. Many Tremere chantries andhavens are protected by this and other Warding Circlerituals.System: The ritual requires three blood points ofmortal blood. The caster determines the size of thewarding circle when it is cast; the default radius is 10feet/3 meters, and every 10-foot/3-meter increase raisesthe difficulty by one, to a maximum of 9 (one additional success is required for every increase past the numbernecessary to raise the difficulty to 9). The player spendsone blood point for every 10 feet/3 meters of radius androlls. The ritual takes the normal casting time if it is tobe short-term (lasting for the rest of the night) or onenight if it is to be long-term (lasting a year and a day).Once the warding circle is established, any ghoulwho attempts to cross its boundary feels a tingle on his skin and a slight breeze on his face — a successful Intelligence + Occult roll (difficulty 8) identifies this asa warding circle. If the ghoul attempts to press on, hemust roll more successes on a Willpower roll (difficultyof the caster’s Thaumaturgy rating + 3) than the casterrolled when establishing the ward. Failure indicatesthat the ward blocks his passage and inflicts three diceof bashing damage, and his next roll to attempt to enter the circle is at +1 difficulty. If the ghoul leaves thecircle and attempts to enter it again, he must repeatthe roll. Attempts to leave the circle are not blocked.

---Level Three Rituals
	1:Clinging of the Insect
	*This ritual allows the caster to cling to walls or ceilings, as would a spider. She may even crawl along thesesurfaces (as long as they can support her). Use of thispower seriously discomfits mortal onlookers. The character must place a live spider under her tongue for theduration of the ritual (though the spider may die whilein the thaumaturge’s mouth without canceling thepower).System: The character may move at half her normal rate while climbing walls or ceilings. This powerlasts for one scene, or until the vampire spits out thespider.
	1:Flesh of Fiery Touch
	*This defensive ritual inflicts painful burns on anyonewho deliberately touches the subject’s skin. It requiresthe subject to swallow a small glowing ember, whichdoes put off some vampires with low pain thresholds.Some vain thaumaturges use this ritual purely for itssubsidiary effect of darkening the subject’s skin to ahealthy sun-bronzed hue.System: Flesh of Fiery Touch takes two hours to cast(reduced by 10 minutes per success). It requires a smallpiece of wood, coal, or other common fuel source,which ignites and is swallowed at the end of the ritual.The subject who swallows the red-hot ember receivesa single aggravated health level of damage (difficulty 6to soak with Fortitude). Until the next sunset, anyonewho touches the subject’s flesh receives a burn that inflicts a single aggravated health level of damage (again,difficulty 6 to soak with Fortitude). The victim mustvoluntarily touch the subject; this damage is not inflicted if the victim is touched or accidentally comes incontact with the subject. This ritual darkens the subject’s skin to that whichwould be obtained by long-term exposure to the sun ina mortal. The tone is slightly unnatural and metallic,and is clearly artificial to any observer who succeeds ina Perception + Medicine roll (difficulty 8).
	1:Incorporeal Passage
	*Use of this ritual allows the thaumaturge to makeherself insubstantial. The caster becomes completelyimmaterial and thus is able to walk through walls, passthrough closed doors, escape manacles, etc. The casteralso becomes invulnerable to physical attacks for theduration of the ritual. The caster must follow a straightpath through any physical objects, and may not drawback. Thus, a Kindred may walk through a solid wall,but may not walk down through the earth (as it wouldbe impossible to reach the other side before the rituallapsed). This ritual requires that the caster carry a shardfrom a shattered mirror to hold her image.System: This ritual lasts a number of hours equal tothe number of successes scored on a Wits + Survivalroll (difficulty 6). The caster may prematurely end theritual (and, thus, her incorporeality) by turning themirror shard away so that it no longer reflects her image.
	1:Mirror of Second Sight
	*This object is an oval mirror no less than four inches(10 cm) wide and no more than 18 inches (45 cm) inlength. It looks like a normal mirror, but once created,the vampire can use it to see the supernatural: It reflects the true form of Lupines and faeries, and enablesthe owner to see ghosts as they move though the Underworld. The caster creates the mirror by bathing anordinary mirror in a quantity of her own blood whilereciting a ritual incantation.System: The ritual requires one point of the vampire’s blood. Thereafter, the mirror reflects images ofother supernatural creatures’ true forms — werewolvesappear in their hulking man-wolf shapes, magi glow ina scintillating nimbus, ghosts become visible (in themirror), and so on. Sometimes, the mirror also revealsthose possessed of True Faith in clouds of golden light.
	1:Pavis of Foul Presence
	*The Tremere joke privately that this is their “ritualfor the Ventrue.” Kindred who invoke the PresenceDiscipline on the subject of this ritual find the effects oftheir Discipline reversed, as if they had used the poweron themselves. For example, a vampire using Presenceto instill fear in a Kindred under the influence of this ritual feels the fear herself; a vampire summoning thecaster is instead drawn to the thaumaturge’s location.This ritual is an unbroken secret among the Tremere,and the Warlocks maintain that its use is unknownoutside their Clan. The magical component for thisritual is a length of blue silken cord, which must beworn around the caster’s neck.System: This ritual lasts against a number of effectsequal to the successes rolled, or until the sunrise after it is enacted. Note that the Presence Disciplinepower must actually succeed before being reversed bythe ritual. As such, only powers that specifically targetthe caster (and thus, require a roll to succeed) can bereversed — “passive” powers such as Majesty are notaffected.
	1:Sanguine Assistant
	*Thaumaturges often need laboratory assistants whomthey can trust implicitly. This ritual allows the intrepidvampire to conjure a temporary servant. To cast theritual, the thaumaturge slices open his arm and bleedsinto a specially prepared earthen bowl. The ritual sucksin and animates whatever random unimportant itemsthe wizard happens to have lying around his workshop— glass beakers, dissection tools, pencils, crumpled papers, semiprecious stones — and binds the materialstogether into a small humanoid form animated by thepower of the ritual and the blood. Oddly enough, thisritual almost never takes in any tool that the casterfinds himself needing during the assistant’s lifespan,nor does it take the physical components of any otherritual nor any living thing. The servant has no personality to speak of at first, but gradually adopts themannerisms and thought processes that the thaumaturge desires in an ideal servant. Sanguine Assistantsare temporary creations, but some vampires becomefond of their tiny accomplices and create the same onewhenever the need arises.System: The player spends five blood points androlls. The servant created by the ritual stands a foot(30 cm) high and appears as a roughly humanoid shapecomposed of whatever the ritual sucked in for its ownuse. It lasts for one night per success rolled. At the endof the last night, the assistant crawls into the bowl usedfor its creation and falls apart. The assistant can be reanimated through another application of this ritual; ifthe caster so desires, it re-forms from the same materials with the same memories and personality.A Sanguine Assistant has Strength and Stamina of1, and Dexterity and Mental Attributes equal to those of the caster. It begins with no Social Attributes tospeak of, but gains one dot per night in Charisma andManipulation until its ratings are equal to those of thecaster. It has all of the caster’s Abilities at one dot lower than his own. A Sanguine Assistant is a naturallytimid creature and flees if attacked, though it will try todefend its master’s life at the cost of its own. It has noDisciplines of its own, but has a full understanding ofall of its master’s Thaumaturgical knowledge and caninstruct others if so commanded. A Sanguine Assistantis impervious to any mind-controlling Disciplines ormagic, so completely is it bound to its creator’s will.
	1:Shaft of Belated Quiescence
	*This ritual turns an ordinary stake of rowan woodinto a particularly vicious weapon. When the stakepenetrates a vampire’s body, the tip breaks off and begins working its way through the victim’s flesh to hisheart. The trip may take several minutes or severalnights, depending on where the stake struck. The stakeeludes attempts to dig it out, burrowing farther into thevictim’s body to escape surgery. The only Kindred whoare immune to this internal attack are those who havehad their hearts removed by Serpentis.System: The ritual takes five hours to enact, minus30 minutes per success. The stake must be carved ofrowan wood, coated with three blood points of thecaster’s blood, and blackened in an oak-wood fire.When the ritual is complete, the stake is enchanted toact as described above.An attack with a Shaft of Belated Quiescence is performed as with a normal stake: a Dexterity + Meleeroll (difficulty 6, modified as per the normal combatrules; the attack does not need to specifically target theheart) with a lethal damage rating of Strength + 1. Ifat least one health level of damage is inflicted after thetarget rolls to soak, the tip of the stake breaks off andbegins burrowing. If not, the stake may be used to makesubsequent attacks until it strikes deep enough to activate.Once the tip of the stake is in the victim’s body, theStoryteller begins an extended roll of the caster’s Thaumaturgy rating (difficulty 9), rolling once per hour ofgame time. Successes on this roll are added to the successes scored in the initial attack. This represents thetip’s progress toward the victim’s heart. A botch indicates that the tip has struck a bone and all accumulatedsuccesses are lost (including those from the initial attack roll). Removing the part of the body where the tipimpacted (such as a Tzimisce turning into blood or a vampire cutting off their arm) may stop the tip’s progress, depending on the number of successes acquiredand the Storyteller’s discretion. When the shaft accumulates a total of 15 successes, it reaches the victim’sheart. This paralyzes Kindred and is instantly fatal tomortals and ghouls.Attempts to surgically remove the tip of the shaftcan be made with an extended Dexterity + Medicineroll made once per hour (difficulty 7 for Kindred and 8for mortals). The surgeon must accumulate a numberof successes equal to those currently held by the shaftin order to remove the tip. Once surgery begins, however, the shaft begins actively evading the surgeon’sprobes, and its rolls are made once every 30 minutes forthe duration of the surgery attempt. Each individualsurgery roll that scores less than three successes inflictsan additional unsoakable level of lethal damage on thepatient.Shaft of Belated Quiescence may be performed onother wooden impaling weapons, such as spears, arrows, practice swords, and pool cues, provided thatthey are made of rowan wood. It may not, however,create a Bullet of Belated Quiescence.
	1:Ward versus Lupines
	*This wards an object in a manner identical to that ofthe Level Two ritual Ward Versus Ghouls, except thatit affects werewolves.System: Ward versus Lupines behaves exactly as doesWard versus Ghouls, but it affects werewolves ratherthan ghouls. The ritual requires a handful of silver dustrather than a blood point.

--Level Four Rituals
	1:Bone of Lies
	*This ritual enchants a mortal bone so that anyonewho holds it must tell the truth. The bone in questionis often a skull, though any part of the skeleton willdo — some casters use strings of teeth, necklaces offinger joints, or wands fashioned from ribs or arms. Thebone grows blacker as it compels its holder to tell thetruth, until it has turned completely ebony and has nomagic left.This ritual binds the spirit of the individual to whomthe bone belonged in life; it is this spirit who wreststhe truth from the potential liar. The spirit absorbsthe lies intended to be told by the bone’s holder, andas it compels more truth, it becomes more and morecorrupt. If summoned forth, this spirit reflects the sins it has siphoned from the defeated liar (in addition toanger over its unwilling servitude). For this reason,anonymous bones are often used in the ritual, and thebone is commonly buried after it has been used to itsfull extent. A specific bone may never be used twicefor this ritual, though different bones from the samecorpse can.System: The bone imbued with this magical powermust be at least 200 years old and must absorb 10 bloodpoints on the night that the ritual is cast. Each liethe holder wishes to tell consumes one of these bloodpoints, and the holder must speak the truth immediately thereafter. When all 10 blood points have beenconsumed, the bone’s magic ceases to work.
	1:Firewalker
	*This ritual imbues the vampire with an unnatural resistance to fire. Only a foolish vampire would actuallyattempt to walk on or through fire, but this ritual doesgrant an advanced tolerance to flame. Some Sabbat usethis ritual to show off, while other thaumaturges useit only for martial concerns. To enact the ritual, thecaster must cut off the end of one of his fingers andburn it in a Thaumaturgical circle.System: Cutting off one’s finger does not do anyhealth levels of damage, but it hurts like hell and requires a Willpower roll to perform. This ritual may becast on other vampires (at the expense of the caster’sfingertips...). If the subject has no Fortitude, he maysoak fire with his Stamina for the duration of this ritual. If the vampire has Fortitude, he may soak fire withhis Stamina + Fortitude for the duration of the ritual.This ritual lasts one hour.
	1:Heart of Stone
	*A vampire under the effect of this ritual experiencesthe transformation suggested by the ritual’s name: hisheart is completely transmuted to solid rock, rendering him virtually impervious to staking. The subsidiaryeffects of the transformation, however, seem to followthe Hermetic laws of sympathetic magic: The vampire’s emotional capacity becomes almost nonexistent,and his ability to relate to others suffers as well.System: This ritual requires nine hours (reduced byone hour for every success). It can only be cast on oneself. The caster lies naked on a flat stone surface andplaces a bare candle over his heart. The candle burnsdown to nothing over the course of the ritual, causingone aggravated health level of damage (difficulty 5 tosoak with Fortitude). At the end of the ritual, the caster’s heart hardensto stone. The caster gains a number of additional diceequal to twice his Thaumaturgy rating to soak any attack that aims for his heart and is completely impervious to the effects of a Shaft of Belated Quiescence (seep. 237). Additionally, the difficulty to use all Presenceor other emotionally manipulative powers on him isincreased by three due to his emotional isolation. Thedrawbacks are as follows: the caster’s Conscience/Conviction and Empathy scores drop to 1 (or to 0 if theyalready were at 1) and all dice pools for Social rolls except those involving Intimidation are halved (including those required to use Disciplines). All Merits thatthe character has pertaining to positive social interaction are neutralized. Heart of Stone lasts as long as thecaster wishes it to.
	1:Splinter Servant
	*Another ritual designed to enchant a stake, SplinterServant is a progressive development of Shaft of Belated Quiescence. (The two rituals, however, are mutually exclusive.) A Splinter Servant consists of a stakecarved from a tree which has nourished itself on thedead. The stake must be bound in wax-sealed nightshade twine. When the binding is torn off, the Splinter Servant leaps to life, animating itself and attackingwhomever the wielder commands — or the wielder, ifshe is too slow in assigning a target. The servant splitsitself into a roughly humanoid form and begins singlemindedly trying to impale the target’s heart. Its exertions tear it apart within a few minutes, but if it piercesits victim’s heart before it destroys itself, it is remarkably difficult to remove, as pieces tend to remain behind if the main portion is yanked out.System: The ritual requires 12 hours to cast, minus one per success, and the servant must be createdas described above. When the binding is torn off, thecharacter who holds it must point the servant at itstarget and verbally command it to attack during thesame turn. If this command is not given, the servantattacks the closest living or unliving being, usually theunfortunate individual who currently carries it.A Splinter Servant always aims for the heart. It hasan attack dice pool of the caster’s Wits + Occult, adamage dice pool of the caster’s Thaumaturgy rating,and a maximum movement rate of 30 yards or metersper turn. Note that these values are those of the casterwho created the servant, not the individual who activates it. A Splinter Servant cannot fly, but can leapits full movement rating every turn. Every action ittakes is to attack or move toward its target; it cannot dodge or split its dice pool to perform multiple attacks.The servant makes normal stake attacks that aim forthe heart (difficulty 9), and its success is judged as perthe rules for a normal staking (see p. 280). A SplinterServant has three health levels, and attacks directedagainst it are made at +3 difficulty due to its small sizeand erratic movement patterns.A Splinter Servant has an effective life of five combat turns per success rolled in its creation. If it has notimpaled its victim by the last turn of its life, the servantcollapses into a pile of ordinary, inanimate splinters.Three successes on a Dexterity roll (difficulty 8) arerequired to remove a Splinter Servant from a victim’sheart without leaving behind shards of the stake.
	1:Ward versus Kindred
	*This warding ritual functions exactly as do Wardversus Ghouls and Ward versus Lupines, but it inflictsinjury upon Cainites.System: Ward versus Kindred behaves exactly asdoes Ward versus Ghouls, but it affects vampires ratherthan ghouls. The ritual requires a blood point of thecaster’s own blood and does not affect the caster.

--Level Five Rituals
	1:Blood Contract
	*This ritual creates an unbreakable agreement between the two parties who sign it. The contract mustbe written in the caster’s blood and signed in the bloodof whoever applies their name to the document. Thisritual takes three nights to enact fully, after which bothparties are compelled to fulfill the terms of the contract.System: This ritual is best handled by the Storyteller, who may bring those who sign the blood contractinto compliance by whatever means necessary (it isnot unknown for demons to materialize and enforceadherence to certain blood contracts). The only wayto terminate the ritual is to complete the terms of thecontract or to burn the document itself — attempts toadd a clause forbidding burning the contract have resulted in the contract spontaneously combusting uponcompletion of the ritual. One blood point is consumedin the creation of the document, and an additionalblood point is consumed by those who sign it.
	1:Enchant Talisman
	*This ritual is the first taught to most Tremere oncethey have attained mastery of their first path. Create Talisman allows the caster to enchant a personal magical item (the fabled wizard’s staff) to act as an amplifierfor her will and thaumaturgical might. Many talismansare laden with additional rituals (such as every wardknown to the caster). The physical appearance of atalisman varies, but it must be a rigid object close toa yard or a meter long. Swords and walking sticks arethe most common talismans, but some innovative oreccentric thaumaturges have enchanted violins, shotguns, pool cues, and classroom pointers.System: This ritual requires six hours per night forone complete cycle of the moon, beginning and endingon the new moon. Over this time, the vampire carefully prepares her talisman, carving it with Hermeticrunes that signify her true name and the sum total ofher thaumaturgical knowledge. The player spends oneblood point per night and makes an extended roll ofIntelligence + Occult (difficulty 8), one roll per week.If a night’s work is missed or if the four rolls do notaccumulate at least 20 net successes, the talisman isruined and the process must be begun again.A completed talisman gives the caster several advantages. When the character is holding the talisman, thedifficulty of all magic that targets her is increased byone. The player receives two extra dice when rollingfor uses of the character’s primary path and one extradie when rolling for the character’s ritual castings. Ifthe talisman is used as a weapon, it gives the playeran additional die to roll to hit. If the thaumaturge isseparated from her talisman, a successful Perception +Occult roll (difficulty 7) gives her its location.If a talisman is in the possession of another individual, it gives that individual three additional dice to rollwhen using any form of magic against the talisman’sowner. At the Storyteller’s discretion, rituals that target the caster and use her talisman as a physical component may have greatly increased effects.A thaumaturge may only have one talisman at atime. Ownership of a talisman may not be transferred— each individual must create her own.
	1:Escape to a True Friend
	*Escape to a True Friend allows the caster to travel tothe person whose friendship and trust she most values.The ritual has a physical component of a yard-wide/meter-wide circle charred into the bare ground orfloor. The caster may step into the circle at any timeand speak the true name of her friend. She is instantlytransported to that individual, wherever he may be atthe moment. She does not appear directly in front of him, but materializes in a location within a few minutes’ walk that is out of sight of any observer. The circlemay be reused indefinitely, as long as it is unmarred.System: This ritual takes six hours a night for sixnights to cast, reduced by one night for every two successes. Each night requires the sacrifice of three of thecaster’s own blood points, which are poured into thecircle. Once the circle is complete, the transport maybe attempted at any time. The caster may take oneother individual with her when she travels, or a maximum amount of “cargo” equal to her own weight.
	1:Paper Flesh
	*This dreadful ritual enfeebles the subject, makingher skin brittle and weak. Humors rise to the surfaceand flesh tightens around bones and scales away at theslightest touch. Used against physically tough opponents, this ritual strips away the inherent resilience ofthe vampiric body, leaving it a fragile, dry husk. Thethaumaturge must inscribe his subject’s true name(which is much harder to discern for elders than it isfor young vampires) on a piece of paper, which he usesto cut himself and then burns to cinders.System: This ritual causes the subject’s Stamina andFortitude (if any) to drop to 1 each. For every Generation below Eighth, the subject retains one extra pointof Stamina or Fortitude (keeping Fortitude first, thoughshe may not exceed her original scores). For example, avampire of the Fourth Generation with Fortitude targeted by Paper Flesh would drop to a Stamina + Fortitude score of 6 (assuming the score was 6 or more tobegin with). This ritual lasts one night.
	1:Ward versus Spirits
	*This warding ritual functions exactly as Ward versusGhouls, but it inflicts injury upon spirits. Several otherversions of this ward exist, each geared toward a particular type of non-physical being.System: Ward versus Spirits behaves exactly as doesWard versus Ghouls, but it affects spirits (including thosesummoned or given physical form by Thaumaturgy Pathssuch as Elemental Mastery). The material componentfor Ward versus Spirits is a handful of pure sea salt.The other versions of this ward, also Level Five rituals, are Ward versus Ghosts and Ward versus Demons.Each of these three Level Five wards affects its respective target on both the physical and spiritual planes.Ward versus Ghosts requires a handful of powderedmarble from a tombstone, while Ward versus Demonsrequires a vial of holy water.



#########################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################
#### Merits and flaws
	*Merits and flaws are optional Traits that a Storyteller may choose to include, or prohibit, in her chronicle. Properly used, ;erits and flaws help players create and individualize their characters. Merits are special abilities or advantages that are rare or unique in the general kindred population, while flaws are liabilities or disadvantages that pose challenges to a character’s nightly existence. These traits can provide player characters with added depth and personality, but storytellers should be careful to ensure that any traits chosen will not adversely influence the course of the chronicle or give one character an unfair advantage over the rest. Merits and flaws can be selected only during character creation and are purchased using freebie points (although existing merits and flaws can be removed or new ones added by the storyteller during the course of the chronicle). Each merit has its own point cost, while each flaw has a point value which adds to the amount of freebie points a player can spend during the creation process. A character may take as many merits as the player can afford, but no character may have more than seven points worth of flaws (which would give a character a total of 22 freebie points to spend in other areas). Merits and flaws are divided into four categories: physical, mental, social and supernatural. The physical category describes merits or flaws that deal with a character’s physical makeup or abilities, while the mental category addresses intellectual abilities or patterns of behavior. The social category comprises relationships and status in kindred or mortal society, while supernatural merits and flaws concern the paranormal abilities of vampires and the way they interact with the physical world. Storytellers are encouraged to not onlyrestrict and disallow any Merits and Flaws that don’t fitwith their chronicles or for specific characters, but alsoto create their own to reflect unique elements of theirgames. Some example restrictions are given in the textof each Merit and Flaw, but Storytellers can allow (ordisallow) any combination that don’t make sense fortheir games.

## PHYSICAL
--Acute Sense(1pt. of Merit)
	*One of your senses is exceptionally sharp, be it sight, hearing, smell, touch, or taste. The difficulties for all tasks involving the use of this particular sense are reduced by two. This Merit can be  combined with theDiscipline of Auspex to produce superhuman sensoryacuity.

--Ambidextrous(1pt. of Merit)
	*You have a high degree of off-hand dexterity andcan perform tasks with the “wrong” hand at no penalty. The rules for taking multiple actions still apply,but you do not suffer a difficulty penalty if you use twoweapons or are forced to use your off hand.

--Bruiser(1pt. of Merit)
	*Your appearance is sufficiently thug-like to inspirefear (or at least disquiet) in those who see you. Whileyou’re not necessarily ugly, you do radiate a quiet menace, to the point where people cross the street to avoidpassing near you. All Intimidation rolls against thosewho have not demonstrated their physical superiorityto you are at -1 difficulty.

--Catlike Balance(1pt. of Merit)
	*You possess an innately perfect sense of balance.Characters with this Merit reduce difficulties of all balance-related rolls (e.g., Dexterity + Athletics to walkalong a narrow ledge) by two.

--Early Riser(1pt. of Merit)
	*No one can explain it, but you seem to have the ability to work on less rest than your fellow vampires. Youalways seem to be the first to rise and the last to go tobed even if you’re been out until dawn. Your Humanity or Path score is considered to be 10 for purposes ofdeciding when you rise each evening. Vampires withthis Merit cannot take the Deep Sleeper Flaw.

--Eat Food(1pt. of Merit)
	*You have the capacity to eat food and even savor itstaste. While you cannot derive any nourishment fromeating regular foods, this ability will serve you well inpretending to be human. Of course, you can’t digestwhat you eat, and there will be some point during theevening when you have to heave it back up.

--Friendly Face(1pt. of Merit)
	*You have a face that reminds everyone of someone,to the point where strangers are inclined to be wellinclined toward you because of it. The effect doesn’tfade even if you explain the “mistake,” leaving you at-1 difficulty on all appropriate Social-based rolls (yes for Seduction, no for Intimidation, for example) whena stranger is involved. This Merit only functions on afirst meeting.

--Blush of Health(2pt. of Merit)
	*You look more hale and healthy in appearance thanother vampires, allowing you to blend with human society much more easily. You still retain the color of aliving mortal, and your skin feels only slightly cool tothe touch.

--Enchanting Voice(2pt. of Merit)
	*There is something about your voice that otherscannot ignore. When you command, they are cowed.When you seduce, they swoon. Whether thundering,soothing, persuading, or simply talking, your voice commands attention. The difficulties of all rolls involvingthe use of the voice to persuade, charm, or commandare reduced by two.

--Daredevil(3pt. of Merit)
	*You are good at taking risks, and even better at surviving them. When attempting exceptionally riskynon-combat actions (such as leaping from one movingcar to another), characters with this Merit add an additional three dice to their rolls, and negate a singlebotch die that may result from such a roll. Generally,such actions must be at least difficulty 8 and have thepotential to inflict at least three health levels of damage if failed.

--Efficient Digestion(3pt. of Merit)
	*You are able to draw more than the usual amountof nourishment from blood. When feeding, you gainan additional point to your blood pool for every twopoints of blood you consume. This does not allow youto exceed your blood pool maximum.

--Huge Size(4pt. of Merit)
	*You are abnormally large in size, at least 6’10” and300 pounds in weight (well over two meters tall andover 130 kgs). Aside from making you extremely noticeable in public, this extra mass bestows an additional Bruised health level. Characters with this Merit mayalso gain bonuses to push objects, open barred doors,avoid being knocked down, etc.

--Hard of Hearing(1pt. of Flaw)
	*Your hearing is defective. The difficulties of any rollsinvolving the use of hearing are increased by two.

--Short(1pt. of Flaw)
	*You are well below average height — four and a halffeet (1.5 meters) tall or less. You have difficulty reaching or manipulating objects designed for normal adultsize, and your running speed is one-half that of an average human.

--Smell of the Grave(1pt. of Flaw)
	*You exude an odor of dampness and newly turnedearth, which no amount of scents or perfumes willcover. Mortals in your immediate presence becomeuncomfortable, so the difficulties of all Social rolls toaffect mortals increase by one.

--Tic/Twitch(1pt. of Flaw)
	*You have some sort of repetitive motion that youmake in times of stress, and it’s a dead giveaway as toyour identity. Examples include a nervous cough, constantly wringing your hands, cracking your knuckles,and so on. It costs one Willpower to refrain from engaging in your tic.-

--Bad Sight(1pt. or 3pt. of Flaw)
	*Your sight is defective. The difficulties of any dierolls involving the use of your eyesight are increased bytwo. As a one-point Flaw, this condition can be corrected with glasses or contacts; as a three-point Flaw,the condition is too severe to be corrected.

--Fourteenth Generation(2pt. of Flaw)
	*You were created five or fewer years ago by a member of the Thirteenth Generation. Though you have10 blood points in your body, only eight of them maybe used to heal wounds, power Disciplines, raise Attributes, etc. You can still use the final two blood pointsfor other purposes, though. The blood point costs ofnightly rising, creating and sustaining ghouls, and creating blood bonds remains the same as for other vampires. You cannot raise any Discipline above four dots.Taking this Flaw precludes you from taking the Generation Background, and you may not start with Status,either. You are likely a Clanless Caitiff, for your bloodis probably too thin to pass down the distinguishingcharacteristics of a Clan. Most Fourteenth-Generation vampires should also take the Thin Blood Flaw(p. 483).

--Fifteenth Generation(4pt. of Flaw)
	*Your vitae is so weak that only six of your 10 bloodpoints can be used for Disciplines, healing or raising Attributes. For these functions, you must expend twoblood points to obtain the effect a normal vampirewould achieve with one. (The cost for nightly risingremains a single blood point.) What’s more, you cannot create or sustain ghouls, create a blood bond, orsire a vampiric childe. You can use the remaining fourblood points to survive through the day and wake upeach night, nothing more.You cannot raise any Discipline above three dots.The weakening of the Curse of Caine has compensations, though (which distinguish this Flaw from theThin Blood Flaw itself). Sunlight does lethal damageto you, instead of aggravated damage as it does to othervampires. You can hold down mortal food and drinkfor an hour or so; other vampires vomit immediately ifthey try (unless they have the Eat Food Merit). Strangest of all, once in a while you might actually have achild the normal, human way... though it will hardlybe a normal, human child.

--Disfigured(2pt. of Flaw)
	*A hideous disfigurement makes your appearance disturbing and memorable. The difficulties of all die rollsrelating to social interaction are increased by two. Youmay not have an Appearance rating greater than 2.

--Dulled Bite(2pt. of Flaw)
	*For some reason your fangs never developed fully,or they may not have manifested at all. When feeding, you need to find some other method of makingthe blood flow. Failing that, you must achieve doublethe normal number of successes in order to make yourbite penetrate properly. A number of Caitiff and highGeneration vampires often manifest this Flaw.

--Infectious Bite(2pt. of Flaw)
	*You may not automatically lick the wounds of yourfeeding closed. In fact, your bites have a one in fivechance of becoming infected and causing mortal victims to become seriously ill. The precise nature of theinfection is determined by the Storyteller.

--One Eye(2pt. of Flaw)
	*You have only one eye — which eye is missing is upto you. The difficulties of all Perception rolls involvingeyesight are increased by two, and the difficulties of alldie rolls requiring depth perception are increased byone (this includes ranged combat).

--Vulnerability to Silver(2pt. of Flaw)
	*To you, silver is as painful and as deadly as the rays ofthe sun. You suffer aggravated wounds from any silverweapons (bullets, knives, etc.), and the mere touch ofsilver objects discomfits you.

--Glowing Eyes(3pt. of Flaw)
	*You have the stereotypical glowing eyes of vampirelegend, which gives you a -1 difficulty on Intimidationrolls when you’re dealing with mortals. However, thetradeoffs are many; you must constantly disguise yourcondition (no, contacts don’t cut it); the glow impairsyour vision and puts you at +1 difficulty on all sightbased rolls (including the use of ranged weapons); andthe radiance emanating from your eye sockets makesit difficult to hide (+2 difficulty to Stealth rolls) in thedark.

--Open Wound(2pt. or 4pt. of Flaw)
	*You have one or more wounds that refuse to heal,and which constantly drip blood. This slow leakagecosts you an extra blood point per evening (marked offjust before dawn), in addition to drawing attention toyou. If the wound is visible, you are at + 1 difficulty forall Social-based rolls. For two points, the Flaw is simplyunsightly and has the basic effect mentioned above; forfour points the seeping wound is serious or disfiguringand includes the effects of the Flaw Permanent Wound(below).

--Addiction(3pt. of Flaw)
	*You suffer from an addiction to a substance, whichmust now be present in the blood you drink (or youautomatically frenzy, as per the Prey Exclusion Flaw).This can be alcohol, nicotine, hard drugs, or simplyadrenaline. This substance always impairs you in somefashion (see “Poisons and Drugs,” p. 301, for particulars).

--Child(3pt. of Flaw)
	*You were a small child (between five and 10 yearsold) at the time of your Embrace, leaving your PhysicalAttributes underdeveloped and making it difficult tointeract with some aspects of mortal society. You maynot have more than two dots in Strength or Staminaat character creation, except when raising Physical Attributes with blood points, and the difficulties of all dierolls when attempting to direct or lead mortal adultsare increased by two. Characters with this Flaw shouldalso take the Short Flaw.

--Deformity(3pt. of Flaw)
	*You have some kind of deformity — a misshapenlimb, hunchback, or clubfoot, for example — whichaffects your physical abilities and interactions withothers. A hunchback, for instance, would lower a character’s Dexterity by two dots and increase the difficultyof die rolls relating to social skills by one. It is the responsibility of the Storyteller to determine the specificeffects of the deformity chosen.

--Lame(3pt. of Flaw)
	*Your legs are damaged, which prevents you from running or walking easily. You are forced to walk with acane or possibly leg braces, and you have a pronouncedlimp to your stride. Your walking speed is one-quarterthat of a normal human, and running is impossible.

--Lazy(3pt. of Flaw)
	*You are simply lazy, avoiding anything that requireseffort on your part. Preferring to let others do the hardwork, you lounge around. For any action that requirespreparation, there’s a good chance you didn’t properlyprepare. Difficulty rolls for spontaneous Physical actions (including combat, unless it’s part of a plannedoffensive) increase by one.

--Monstrous(3pt. of Flaw)
	*Your physical form was twisted during the Embrace,and now reflects the Beast that rages inside you. Characters with this Flaw appear to be savage monsters andhave Appearance ratings of zero. Nosferatu and otherbloodlines whose weaknesses cause them to start offwith Appearance zero cannot take this Flaw.

--Permanent Fangs(3pt. of Flaw)
	*Your fangs do not retract, making it impossible foryou to hide your true nature. While some mortals maythink you’ve had your teeth filed or are wearing prosthetics, sooner or later you’re going to run into someone who knows what you truly are. You are also limitedto a maximum Appearance rating of 3.

--Permanent Wound(3pt. of Flaw)
	*You suffered injuries during your Embrace which yourtransformation somehow failed to repair. At the beginning of each night, you rise from sleep at the Wounded health level, though this may be healed by spendingblood points.

--Slow Healing(3pt. of Flaw)
	*You have difficulty healing wounds. It requires twoblood points to heal one health level of bashing or lethal damage, and you heal one health level of aggravated damage every five days (plus the usual five bloodpoints and Willpower expenditure).

--Disease Carrier(4pt. of Flaw)
	*Your blood carries a lethal and highly contagious disease. The disease can be anything from rabies to HIV,and Kindred who drink your blood have a 10% chanceof becoming a carrier as well. You must spend an extrablood point each night on awakening, or you will beginmanifesting symptoms of the disease (increased chanceto frenzy for rabies, reduced soak rolls for HIV, etc.).

--Deaf(4pt. of Flaw)
	*You cannot hear. While you may be more resistantto some applications of Dominate, you also may notlisten to electronic or vocal media, and the difficultiesof many Perception rolls are increased by three.

--Mute(4pt. of Flaw)
	*You cannot speak. You may communicate with theStoryteller and describe your actions, but cannot talkto player or Storyteller characters unless everyoneconcerned purchases a commonly understood signlanguage (via the Language Merit) or you write downwhat you wish to say.

--Thin Blood(4pt. of Flaw)
	*Your blood is thin, weak, and does not sustain youwell. All blood point costs are doubled (e.g., usingblood-related Disciplines or healing damage), althoughyou only lose one blood upon rising in the evening.Furthermore, you are unable to create a blood bond,and efforts to sire other vampires succeed only one infive times.

--Flesh of the Corpse(5pt. of Flaw)
	*Your flesh does not fully regenerate itself once it isdamaged. While you are able to heal yourself to thepoint of regaining full functionality, your skin stillretains the cuts, tears, bullet holes, and other visibledamage that you have incurred. Depending on the nature of the damage, this Flaw will make social dealingsexceedingly difficult, and may decrease your Appearance dots over time (even to 0).

--Infertile Vitae(5pt. of Flaw)
	*During your Embrace, something went horriblywrong, causing your blood to mutate under the stressof dying and rising again. All those you try to Embracedie. No matter what you do, you may not create anychilder. However, your blood can still be used in bloodrituals like Thaumaturgy and the Vaulderie, or for anyother vampiric needs like making ghouls.

--Blind(6pt. of Flaw)
	*You cannot see. Characters can compensate for theloss of vision by becoming more attuned to other sensory input, but visual cues and images are lost to them.Difficulties of all Dexterity-based rolls are increased bytwo. Oddly, vampires with Aura Perception (Auspex2) are still able to use this ability, thought the information is interpreted via the other senses. On the otherhand, vampires who need make eye contact to enactpowers like Dominate against you are only at a penaltyto do so (see the sidebar on p. 152).

## MENTAL
--Coldly Logical(1pt. Merit)
	*While some might refer to you as a “cold fish,” youhave a knack for separating factual reporting from emotional or hysterical coloration. You may or may not beemotional yourself, but you can see clearly when othersare clouding the facts with their feelings (-1 difficultyon all related rolls).

--Common Sense(1pt. Merit)
	*You have a significant amount of practical, everyday wisdom. Whenever you are about to act in a waycontrary to common sense, the Storyteller can makesuggestions or warnings about the implications of saidaction. This is a very useful Merit for beginning playersunfamiliar with the game.

--Concentration(1pt. Merit)
	*You have the ability to focus your mind and shut outany distractions or annoyances. Characters with thisMerit are unaffected by any penalties stemming fromdistracting circumstances (e.g., loud noises, strobelights, or hanging upside down).

--Introspection(1pt. Merit)
	*You have keen insight into the ulterior motives of allyour actions. Through this nightly exercise, you alsohave incredible insight into the underlying motives of others’ actions. Add two dice to your Perception dicepool when you must take an action against someonewith the same Nature or Demeanor as you.

--Language(1pt. Merit)
	*You know a language in addition to your native one.You can take this Merit multiple times, each reflectinga different language.

--Time Sense(1pt. Merit)
	*You have an innate sense of time and are able to estimate the passage of time accurately without using awatch or other mechanical device.

--Useful Knowledge(1pt. Merit)
	*You have expertise in a specific field that makes yourconversation intriguing to an older Kindred. So longas your knowledge holds the other vampire’s attention,he has a vested interest in keeping you around. Thenagain, once he’s pumped you for every iota of information you possess, that patronage may suddenly vanish.(Note: This Merit should be played like a 1-dot Mentor with a specific interest. However, unlike a Mentor,Useful Knowledge does not imply a permanent relationship.)

--Code of Honor (2pt. Merit)
	*You have a personal code of ethics to which you adhere. The specifics of this code must be worked out withthe Storyteller prior to play, and the character mustfollow it strictly. Characters with this Merit gain twoadditional dice to all Willpower or Virtue rolls whenacting in accordance with their code (e.g., defendingthe helpless) or when attempting to avoid situationsthat might force them to violate their code.

--Computer Aptitude (2pt. Merit)
	*You are familiar with and talented in the uses ofcomputer equipment. Other Kindred may not understand computers, but to you they are intuitive. All rollsinvolving computers are at -2 difficulty for you.

--Eidetic Memory (2pt. Merit)
	*You remember, with perfect detail, things you see andhear. Documents, photographs, conversations, etc.,can be committed to memory with only minor concentration. Under stressful conditions involving numerousdistractions, you must make a Perception + Alertnessroll (difficulty 6) to summon enough concentration toabsorb what your senses detect.

--Light Sleeper (2pt. Merit)
	*You can awaken instantly at any sign of trouble ordanger, and do so without any sleepiness or hesitation.You may ignore rules regarding how Humanity or yourmorality Path restricts the number of dice availableduring the day.

--Nightmares (1pt. Flaw)
	*You experience horrendous nightmares every timeyou sleep, and memories of them haunt you duringyour waking hours. Upon awakening, you must makea Willpower roll (difficulty 7) or lose a die on all actions for that night. A botched Willpower roll indicates that, even when awake, you still believe that youare locked in a nightmare.

--Natural Linguist (2pt. Merit)
	*You have a flair for languages. You may add three diceto any dice pool involving written or spoken languages, and each purchase of the Language Merit (previouspage) gives you two languages instead of just one.

--Calm Heart (3pt. Merit)
	*You are naturally calm and do not easily fly off thehandle. You receive two extra dice when attempting toresist a frenzy. Brujah may not take this Merit.

--Iron Will (3pt. Merit)
	*When you are determined and your mind is set, nothing can thwart you from your goals. Characters usingDementation, Dominate, or any other mind-alteringmagic, spell, or Thaumaturgy path against your character are at +3 difficulty.Elder levels of powers like Dementation and Dominate may overwhelm even this resistance. AgainstLevel Six powers, the expenditure of a Willpower pointthrough Iron Will only raises the difficulty of the Discipline roll by two. Against Level Seven powers, the difficulty is increased by only one. Level Eight and higherpowers cannot be resisted with Iron Will.This Merit does not affect Presence or other powersdealing with the emotions. Characters will Willpowerscores below 8 cannot take this Merit.

--Precocious (3pt. Merit)
	*You learn quickly. The time for you to pick up a particular Ability (or Abilities, at Storyteller discretion) iscut in half, as is the experience cost.

--Prey Exclusion (1pt. Flaw)
	*You refuse to hunt a certain class of prey. You mightrefuse to feed on drug dealers, policemen, accountants,or rich people — if you accidentally feed upon suchan individual, you automatically frenzy and must makea roll to prevent Humanity or Path loss (difficulty 7).Witnessing other Kindred feeding on the object ofyour exclusion might also provoke a frenzy, at the Storyteller’s discretion. Ventrue, owing to the limitationsalready imposed on their feeding by their Clan weakness, may not take this Flaw.

--Shy (1pt. Flaw)
	*You are distinctly ill at ease when dealing with people and try to avoid social situations whenever possible. Difficulties for all rolls involving social interactionwith strangers are increased by two. If the characterbecomes the center of attention in a large group, difficulties are increased by three.

--Soft-Hearted (1pt. Flaw)
	*You cannot stand to watch others suffer. You avoidany situation that involves causing someone physicalor emotional pain, unless you make a Willpower roll(difficulty 8). You must have a Humanity rating of 7or above to take this Flaw — vampires on Paths of Enlightenment can only take this Flaw with Storytellerapproval.

--Speech Impediment (1pt. Flaw)
	*You have a stammer or other speech impedimentthat hampers verbal communication. The difficultiesof all die rolls involving verbal communication are increased by two. This Flaw must be roleplayed whenever possible.

--Unconvinced (1pt. Flaw)
	*You fail to see the need for the core ideologies ofyour Sect or Clan, and have gone on record as sayingso. Taking your stand has made you suspect in the eyesof your superiors, and may have attracted the attentionof your enemies as well.

--Amnesia (2pt. Flaw)
	*You are unable to remember anything about yourpast, yourself, or your family (whether mortal or vampiric), though your past might well come back to hauntyou. Your origins and the circumstances behind      youramnesia are for the Storyteller to determine, and she isencouraged to make it as interesting as possible.

--Deep Sleeper (1pt. Flaw)
	*When you sleep, it is very difficult for you to awaken.The difficulty of any roll to awaken during the day isincreased by two.
 
--Impatient (1pt. Flaw)
	*You have no patience for standing around and waiting. You want to do things now — fuck those slowpokestrying to hold you back. Every time you are forced towait around instead of acting, a Self-Control roll is required to see if you go tearing off on your own instead.

--Vengeful (2pt. Flaw)
	*You have a score to settle, incurred either duringyour mortal days or after the Embrace. You are obsessedwith taking your revenge on an individual or group,and it is your overriding priority in any situation whereyou encounter the object of your revenge. You maytemporarily resist your need for vengeance by spendinga Willpower point.

--Lunacy (2pt. Flaw)
	*You are affected by the phases of the moon, increasing your chances to frenzy. Under the crescent moon,difficulties to avoid frenzy increase by one. Under thehalf or gibbous moon, difficulties rise by two. Whenthe moon is full, difficulties increase by three.

--Phobia (2pt. Flaw)
	*You have an overpowering fear of something. Spiders, snakes, crowds, and heights are examples of common phobias. You must make a Courage roll every timeyou encounter the object of your fear. The difficulty ofthe roll is determined by the Storyteller. If you fail theroll, you must retreat from the object.

--Short Fuse (2pt. Flaw)
	*You are easily angered. Difficulties to avoid frenzy aretwo greater. Brujah vampires cannot take this Flaw, asthey already suffer from a similar weakness.

--Stereotype (2pt. Flaw)
	*You buy heavily into all of the vampire stories you’veread and heard. You wear a cape or body glitter, speakwith an accent, and otherwise act in a cartoonish fashion. Such behavior is embarrassing in the extreme toother Kindred, who are likely to ostracize or mock you(+2 difficulty to Social rolls with other vampires whodon’t share your habits). You also stand out to hunters.

--Territorial (2pt. Flaw)
	*You are extremely territorial, staking out a particulararea as your hunting ground and reacting aggressivelyto trespassers. If another vampire enters your territoryuninvited, you must make a frenzy roll. If you fail, youimmediately attack the interloper and continue attacking until the intruder is dead or has left your hunting grounds. You are reluctant to leave your territoryexcept in desperate circumstances.

--Thirst for Innocence (2pt. Flaw)
	*The sight of innocence — of any sort — arouses inyou a terrible bloodlust. Roll Self-Control or Instincts,or else frenzy and attack the source of your hunger.

--Victim of the Masquerade (2pt. Flaw)
	*The Camarilla’s propaganda machine did too good ajob on you. Even after your Embrace you refused to believe you were a vampire. You remain convinced thatthere is some logical explanation for your condition,and spend as much time as you can searching for it.You also have problems feeding, and may insist on trying to eat regular food. None of these habits makes youparticularly pleasant company for other Kindred. ThisFlaw must be roleplayed at all times, and is generallytaken by Camarilla vampires.

--Weak-Willed (3pt. Flaw)
	*You are highly susceptible to Dominate and intimidation by others; Dominate attempts automatically affectyou unless the Discipline wielder is of higher Generation, and your difficulties to resist Social abilities suchas Intimidation or Leadership, as well as mind-alteringspells or magic, are increased by two. Your WillpowerTrait may never rise above 4.

--Conspicuous Consumption (4pt. Flaw)
	*It is not enough for you to draw nourishment fromthe blood of mortals — you believe you must also consume your victim’s heart, liver, and other blood-richtissue. Of course, this will necessitate the deaths of allof your victims (unless you are extremely creative),which might lead to numerous problems with maintaining Humanity (and a low profile). Characters withthis Flaw should additionally purchase the Eat FoodMerit.

--Guilt-Wracked (4pt. Flaw)
	*You simply cannot come to grips with the fact thatyou must drink blood to survive. You suffer horribleguilt over each time you feed (roll Conscience, difficulty 7, or else frenzy every time you feed — characterswith the Conviction Virtue cannot take this Flaw) andtry to avoid doing so as much as possible. This meansthat you rarely have much blood in your system, leaving you vulnerable to both attacks and hunger-basedfrenzies.

--Flashbacks (6pt. Flaw)
	*You managed to make it through the Creation Rites orother similarly traumatic experience, but not wholly intact. The most insignificant thing can throw you into adifferent mood or state of mind, and as such your behavior is extremely unpredictable. Because of your precariousemotional state, your Willpower fluctuates. At the beginning of each story, make a Willpower roll (you may notspend Willpower for an automatic success). If you succeed,you may participate in the story as normal. If you fail, however, your Willpower score is considered to be 1 for theduration of that session, and you only have one Willpowerpoint to spend. You may roll again at the beginning of thenext session to see if you regain your Willpower.

## SOCIAL
--Elysium Regular (1pt. Merit)
	*You spend an unusual amount of time in Elysium.You see and are seen to such an extent that all of themovers and shakers of Elysium at least know who youare. Extended time spent in Elysium also gives you extended opportunities to interact with the Harpies andother Kindred of that stature — and they’ll know yourname when you approach them. This Merit is generally taken by vampires that respect and attend Elysiumon a regular basis.

--Former Ghoul (1pt. Merit)
	*You were introduced to the Blood long before youwere made Kindred. Your long experience as a ghoulgives you insight into and comfort with vampiric society. You are at -1 difficulty on all Social rolls when inthe presence of other neonates (particularly those whohaven’t been educated by their sires), and have a -1difficulty on all rolls relating to vampiric knowledge.

--Harmless (1pt. Merit)
	*Everyone in the city knows you, and knows thatyou’re no threat to their plans. While that sort of estimation may seem insulting, it’s also what’s kept youfrom being killed. No one considers you worth theirtime to deal with, and that low opinion keeps you safe.If you start acting in a way that demonstrates that youare no longer harmless, others’ reactions to you willlikely change as a result.

--Natural Leader (1pt. Merit)
	*You are gifted with a certain magnetism to whichothers naturally defer. You receive two extra dice when making Leadership rolls. You must have a Charismarating of 3 or greater to purchase this Merit.

--Prestigious Sire (1pt. Merit)
	*Your sire has or had great status in her Sect or Clan,and this has accorded you a certain amount of prestige. Though your sire may no longer have any dealingswith you, the simple fact of your ancestry has markedyou forever. This prestige might aid you greatly in dealings with other vampires, or it might engender jealousyor contempt.

--Protégé (1pt. Merit)
	*Your sire watched you for some time before Embracing you, and spoke glowingly of you to acquaintances.These vampires may be inclined to look favorably onyou by dint of your sire’s recommendation; you are at-1 difficulty on Social rolls with all those who’ve heardgood things about you.

--Rep (1pt. Merit)
	*Your fame has exceeded the bounds of your Sect. Everyone knows who you are, what you’ve done and whatyou’re supposed to have done (which might not be thesame thing). The publicity can be good or bad; whatmatters is that everybody knows your name. Whether individuals outside of your immediate social circleknow enough to match your face to your name is a different matter.

--Sabbat Survivor (1pt. Merit)
	*You’ve lived through at least one Sabbat attack orattempted recruitment. Your experience helps youanticipate situations where you might potentiallybe endangered by the Sabbat once again. You are at-1 difficulty on all Perception rolls when it comes toSabbat-based matters. This Merit is generally taken bygroups in conflict with the Sabbat, and comes into playmost frequently as a means of avoiding ambushes.

--Boon (1-6pt. Merit)
	*Someone owes you a favor. The vampire in your debtmight be the lowliest neonate in the city or might bethe Prince herself; it all depends on how many pointsthe Merit costs. You only have that single favor owedyou (unless you take the Merit multiple times), so using it properly is of paramount importance. Dependingon status and other factors, the vampire who owes youa favor may well resent his debt, and might go out ofhis way to “settle” it early — even going so far as tocreate situations from which he must “rescue” you andthus clear the slate.

--Bullyboy (2pt. Merit)
	*You’re part of the brute squad the local Sheriff orBishop calls on when he needs some muscle. As aresult, you get in on action that others miss entirely,score points with those in power, and occasionally geta chance to act outside of the law. How far outsidethe law you can go depends on circumstance and howmuch the vampire you report to likes you.

--Old Pal (2pt. Merit)
	*An acquaintance from your breathing days was Embraced at the same time you were. Fortunately, yourfriendship has endured even death and unlife, and youfind a constant source of support and aid in your oldfriend. She expects the same of you, which isn’t alwaysconvenient, but at least you each have someone tohang onto who remembers the good old nights — anddays. The Storyteller should play the Old Pal as a veryloyal Ally.

--Lawman’s Friend (2pt. Merit)
	*For whatever reason (maybe your winning smile orperhaps just your superb groveling technique), the local Sheriff or Bishop in charge of discipline likes you.He’s inclined to overlook your minor trespasses and letyou in on things you’re not supposed to know about.He even gives you warnings about occasional crackdowns and times when the higher-ups aren’t feelinggenerous. Of course, abusing this connection mightwell turn a friendly vampire into an enemy — and thechange might not be apparent until it’s too late.

--Open Road (2pt. Merit)
	*Unlike many Kindred, you like to travel. You havea solid knowledge of safe travel routes and methodologies, not to mention haven space available in any number of destinations. Unless someone out there knowsyour exact route and is specifically looking for you, youcan move between cities unimpeded by random encounters with Lupines, overzealous state troopers, andthe like.

--Sanctity (2pt. Merit)
	*This Merit is sometimes called the halo effect; everyone considers you pure and innocent, though notnecessarily naïve. You have a saint-like quality that ishard to pinpoint but cannot be denied. You are trusted, even if you are not trustworthy. At the Storyteller’sdiscretion, you tend to receive lesser punishments forwrongdoing, and you are liked by most.

--Scholar of Enemies (2pt. Merit)
	*You have taken the time to learn about and specialize in one particular enemy of your Sect. You are awareof at least some of the group’s customs, strategies, abilities, and long-term goals, and can put that knowledgeto good use. This Merit is worth a -2 difficulty for allnon-combat rolls pertaining specifically to the subjectof your specialization. On the other hand, you are at a+1 difficulty when it comes to dealing with other enemies, simply because you’re so thoroughly focused onyour field.

--Scholar of Others (2pt. Merit)
	*This Merit functions identically to Scholar of Enemies, except that it applies to a group that is not necessarily inimical to your Sect.

--Friend of the Underground(3pt. Merit)
	*While you’re not a Nosferatu, you know your wayaround the sewers, tunnels, ducts, subway tubes, andother subterranean passages of your hometown. The local Nosferatu (and any other creatures dwelling downin the muck) may not actually like you, but they’re notinclined to kill you on sight when they see you in theirterritory. You are at -1 difficulty on any rolls involvingthe subterranean world (sneaking from place to placeunderground, finding routes into sub-basements, andso on). Nosferatu cannot purchase this Merit.

--Mole (3pt. Merit)
	*You have an informer buried in one of your Sect’senemy organizations who funnels you all sorts of information as to what her peers are up to. What youdo with the information is up to you, but abusing theknowledge might be a good way to get your informerkilled. The other side has spies too….

--Rising Star (3pt. Merit)
	*You’re one of the up-and-comers in the city, a risingstar in your Sect. Everyone wants to know you and beyour friend, even as those in power groom you for positions of greater responsibility. You are at -1 difficultyon all Social rolls against any vampires in your Sectwho aren’t actively opposing your ascent.

--Broken Bond (4pt. Merit)
	*You were once blood-bound but have secretly slippedthe leash, and you are free to act as you will once more.Your regnant has no idea that you are not in fact bound, and continues to treat you as if you were. At Storyteller discretion, the experience of having been bound oncemay render you immune to ever being enthralled again.Sabbat vampires cannot take this Merit.

--Clan Friendship (4pt. Merit)
	*One particular Clan (not your own) has a special liking for you. You might have done the Clan as a whole afavor at some point, or perhaps you’re just a loud voicein support of their aims. Whatever the case, you’re at-2 difficulty on all friendly Social rolls involving members of the Clan in question. Of course, the reactionyour cozy relationship with another Clan is likely todraw from your own Clan leaders is an entirely different can of worms.

--Primogen/Bishop Friendship(4pt. Merit)
	*The ruling vampires of the city value you and youropinions. You are called in to consult on decisions, andyour recommendations carry great weight. Your position may not be an official one, but it’s powerful nonetheless.

--Botched Presentation (1pt. Flaw)
	*When your sire presented you to the Prince of thecity, you flubbed it. Now you’re convinced His Majestyhates you (whether he does or not). You need to succeed on a Willpower roll (difficulty 7) just to stand infront of the Prince or one of his duly authorized representatives without running, blubbering, or otherwisemaking a fool of yourself. This Flaw can only be takenby Camarilla vampires.

--Dark Secret (1pt. Flaw)
	*You have some sort of secret that, if uncovered,would be of immense embarrassment to you and wouldmake you a pariah in the local Kindred community.This could be anything from having murdered an elderto being a member of the Anarchs.

--Expendable (1pt. Flaw)
	*Someone in power doesn’t want you around. Maybeshe wants territory you possess, or is jealous of the attention you’re getting from a prize mortal retainer —the details are irrelevant. What does matter is that shehas the power to maneuver you into dangerous situations “for the good of the Sect,” and has no compunctions about doing so.

--Incomplete Understanding (1pt. Flaw)
	*The whole matter has been explained to you, butyou’re still not quite sure how things in your Sect work.Your imperfect understanding of the rules and regulations of your new existence means that sooner or later,you’re going to make a mistake. It’s only a matter oftime….

--Sire’s Resentment (1pt. Flaw)
	*Your sire dislikes you and wishes you ill. Given thesmallest opportunity, she will actively seek to do youharm. Your sire’s allies also work against you, and manyelders may resent you.

--Infamous Sire (1pt. Flaw)
	*Your sire was, and perhaps still is, distrusted and disliked by many of the city’s Kindred. As a result, you aredistrusted and disliked as well.

--Mistaken Identity (1pt. Flaw)
	*You look similar to descriptions of another Kindred, which cause cases of mistaken identity. This canprompt numerous awkward or even dangerous situations, especially if your “twin” has a terrible reputationor is wanted for some crime.

--New Arrival (1pt. Flaw)
	*You’ve just arrived in your new city of residence, anddon’t know anyone in the place. Existing factions maytry to recruit or eliminate you, while vampires in positions of authority size you up and take your measure.Meanwhile, your ignorance of the city’s current events,history, and politics (not to mention the personalityquirks of the vampires already in place) may cause youto make a serious blunder.

--New Kid (1pt. Flaw)
	*You’re the latest in the city to be Embraced or haveyet to prove yourself to your Sect, and everyone knowsit. That automatically puts you at the bottom of thesocial totem pole. Other neonates take every opportunity to demonstrate your inferiority, or rival packsconstantly test your worthiness to the Sabbat. Evenif someone else is added to the ranks of the unliving,you’re still regarded as something as a bit of a geek byyour peers — a distinction that can have dangerousconsequences if bullets start flying. All Social-relatedrolls are at +1 difficulty when you are dealing with other neonates. (Ancillae and elders lump you in with allthe other neonates under their general disdain.)

--Recruitment Target (1pt. Flaw)
	*Someone in one of your Sect’s enemy organizationswants you, and they want you bad. Every effort is beingmade to recruit you, willing or no, and the press gangsusually show up at the worst possible time.

--Special Responsibility (1pt. Flaw)
	*Shortly after your Embrace, you volunteered forsome task in order to gain respect and approval fromthe vampires around you. Now, you wish you had never opened your damn mouth! While you are not givenany special credit for performing this duty, you wouldlose a lot of respect if you were to stop. The natureand the details of your duty should be worked out withthe Storyteller in advance. Ideas can range from lending money to other Kindred to acting as a messengeror possibly gathering victims for ritae (such as BloodFeasts).

--Sympathizer (1pt. Flaw)
	*You have publicly expressed sympathy for some ofthe goals and policies of the enemies of your Sect. Youroutspoken views on the subject have made you suspectin the eyes of the city’s hierarchy, and you may be suspected of (or arrested for) treason.

--Enemy (1-5pt. Flaw)
	*You have an enemy, or perhaps a group of enemies,who seek to harm you. The power of the enemy depends upon how many points the player wishes tospend (five points indicate the wrath of a Methuselahor other potent supernatural foe).

--Bound (2pt. Flaw)
	*You are blood bound to another vampire. Your regnant may not necessarily treat you badly, but the factremains that your will is not entirely your own. Theknowledge gnaws at you, even as you find yourself lostin devotion to your vampiric master. Sabbat vampirescannot take this Flaw.

--Catspaw (2pt. Flaw)
	*You’ve done dirty work for someone high up in thecity’s hierarchy in the past — the Sheriff, the Bishop,or even someone higher. However, instead of grantingyou favor, your deeds have made you an embarrassmentor a liability. For the moment, your former employer’sconcern is to keep you quiet. In the long term, it’s toget rid of you.

--Escaped Target (2pt. Flaw)
	*You had targeted a mortal for the Embrace, butsomeone else got there first. You cannot stand the humiliation of being cheated of your prize, and fly into arage (+2 difficulty to avoid frenzy) whenever you seethe one who got away. This hatred may lead you intoother irrational behaviors, like Embracing enemies ofthe neonate, creating unauthorized childer, or eventrying to kill your rival. Furthermore, your petty andirrational behavior is well-known and quite noticeable,and as a result you are at + 1 difficulty on all Charismarolls until the situation is resolved.

--Failure (2pt. Flaw)
	*You once held a title in the city, but failed catastrophically in your duties. Now you are branded incompetent, excluded from circles of power and responsibility,and generally ostracized by those on their way up. Yourexclusion may make you a target for recruitment bythe Sect’s enemies (or so the whispers run, making youeven more distrusted). Conversely, the consequencesof your error might come back to haunt you.

--Masquerade Breaker (2pt. Flaw)
	*In your first nights as a vampire, you accidentallybroke the Masquerade — and were spotted doing so.Someone else covered for your mistake, but holds thefavor over you. Now you exist in fear that your errorwill be revealed. In the meantime, your “savior” takespitiless advantage of you. This Flaw can only be takenby vampires in Sects or Clans that respect the Masquerade.

--Hunted (4pt. Flaw)
	*You are pursued by a fanatical witch-hunter whobelieves (perhaps correctly) that you are a danger tohumanity. All those with whom you associate, be theymortal or Kindred, may be hunted as well.

--Old Flame (2pt. Flaw)
	*Someone you once cared deeply for is now with theenemy. He still attempts to play on your sympathies“for old times’ sake” while working against you. Unlessyou succeed on a contested Manipulation + Expressionroll against your former friend, you cannot act againsthim unless the situation becomes life-threatening.

--Rival Sires (2pt. Flaw)
	*The flip side of Escaped Target, two vampires wanted to gift you with the Embrace. One succeeded, onefailed — and she’s not happy about that failure. You, your actual sire, or both of you have become the targetof the failed suitor’s ire. Regardless, your persecutor isat +2 difficulty to refrain from frenzy in your presence.In addition, she may well be working actively to discredit or destroy you.

--Uppity (2pt. Flaw)
	*You are proud of your new status in the Sect — soproud that you’ve shot your mouth off to other Kindredand made some enemies. Wiser vampires laugh at youand chalk your rudeness up to youth, but others findyou arrogant and insulting. These enemies will take action to embarrass or harm you. Furthermore, you areat +2 difficulty on all Social rolls against any vampiresyou have alienated through your yammering — andyou may not know who they are. At Storyteller discretion, you may also be requiredto make a Willpower roll (difficulty 6) to keep yourmouth shut any time the opportunity presents itself foryou to brag about your pack, your Clan, or your status.

--Narc (3pt. Flaw)
	*You are known to be a snitch, an informer firmlyplanted in the pocket of the vampires in charge. Thoseon whom you might yet inform loathe you as a result,feeding you misinformation when they can in an attemptto discredit you. Given the opportunity, they might doyou mischief. Regardless, your reputation as a weasel precedes you, putting you at +1 difficulty on all Social rollsagainst those who don’t agree with your politics.

--Sleeping With the Enemy (3pt. Flaw)
	*You have some sort of intimate connection with amember of an opposing Sect or inimical Clan. You mayhave a lover, a childe, a friend, or a contact workingthe other side of the fence, but regardless of politicsyou retain a friendly (or more than friendly) relationship with your putative foe. Your close ties to someoneon the other side would be regarded as treason by yoursuperiors within the Sect, and if you are discovered,the penalty will surely be death.

--Disgrace to the Blood (3pt. Flaw)
	*Your sire regards the fact that he Embraced you tobe a titanic mistake, and has let everyone know it. Youare mocked at gatherings, taunted by your peers, andactively despised by the one who should be giving youguidance. Any request or petition you make is likely tobe looked down upon by friends of your sire, and yourachievements are likely to be discounted.

--Clan Enmity (4pt. Flaw)
	*One Clan in particular wants you dead. You have offended the entire Clan, from elders to neonates, and as aresult every member of that bloodline wants your head ona plate. The effects of the Flaw may manifest as anythingfrom very public snubs and insults to actual attempts onyour unlife. You are also at +2 difficulty on all Socialrolls relating to members of the Clan in question.

--Former Prince (3pt. Flaw)
	*Once, you held near-absolute power in a city, butthose nights are gone now. Perhaps you stepped down,perhaps you were deposed, or perhaps your city fellto the Sabbat; it matters little in your reduced state.What does matter is that the Prince in the city whereyou now dwell is aware of your prior employment, andhas concerns that you might be trying to make a comeback. The machinery of the Camarilla in the city whereyou now make your home is subtly stacked against you,and if the Prince sees an opportunity to get rid of youhe just might take it. This Flaw can only be taken byCamarilla vampires.

--Loathsome Regnant (4pt. Flaw)
	*Not only are you blood bound, but you are also inthrall to a vampire who mistreats you hideously. Perhaps you are publicly abused or humiliated; perhapsyour master forces you to commit unspeakable acts forhim. In any case, existence under the bond is a neverending nightmare, with your regnant serving to conduct the symphony of malice. Sabbat vampires cannottake this Flaw.

--Hunted Like a Dog (3pt. Flaw)
	*Another Sect or group of vampires has decided thatyou’re a target for extermination, and pursues you relentlessly. On the bright side, the enemies of your enemy may well wish to help you out, potentially garnering you allies.

--Overextended (4pt. Flaw)
	*You’ve got your fingers in too many pies, and peopleare starting to notice. You have too many ghouls, toomany retainers, or too much influence, which meansthat a lot of people have a vested interest in trimmingback your operations. These enemies take every opportunity to reduce your power and influence, and if thatmeans lying, cheating, or killing, so be it. Furthermore,your enemies block every attempt you make to moveinto new areas of control. You’re boxed in, and the boxis getting smaller.

--Probationary Sect Member (4pt. Flaw)
	*You are a defector. You turned traitor to the Camarilla, Sabbat, or other Sect, and you still have much toprove before you are accepted by the Kindred you havedefected to. Other vampires treat you with distrust andeven hostility, and your reputation might even sullythose whom you regularly associate with.

--Blood Hunted (4 or 6pt. Flaw)
	*You have been made the target of a blood hunt, andfor you to return to your home city is death. For fourpoints, this Flaw means that only your home city is offlimits to you. For six, it means that the entire Camarilla is howling for your vitae. This Flaw can only betaken by Camarilla vampires.

--Laughingstock (5pt. Flaw)
	*Somehow you’ve drawn the scorn of the local Harpies, who make you their favorite target. You are ata +2 difficulty on all Social rolls in Elysium and a +1anywhere else in the city. In addition, you are at +2difficulty to use Intimidation or any Dominate powers on anyone who has heard the stories mocking you.This Flaw can only be taken by Camarilla vampires.

--Red List (7pt. Flaw)
	*You are either being considered for or are already onthe dreaded Red List, the registry of those vampires theCamarilla most wants extinguished. Any Camarillavampire will either attack you on sight or, more likely,call in for a great deal of help.

## SUPERNATURAL
--Medium (2pt. Merit)
	*You possess the natural affinity to sense and hear spirits, ghosts, and shades. Though you cannot see them,you can sense them, speak to them and, through pleading or cajoling, draw them to your presence. You maycall upon them for aid or advice, but there will alwaysbe a price. Also, your difficulty is reduced by two for allAwareness rolls involving the spirits of the dead.

--Lucky (3pt. Merit)
	*You were born lucky — or else the Devil looks afterhis own. Either way, you may repeat any three failedrolls per story, including botches, but you may try onlyonce per failed roll.

--Magic Resistance (2pt. Merit)
	*You have an inherent resistance to the rituals of theTremere and the spells of the mages of other Clans.The difficulty of all such magic, both malicious and beneficent, is two higher when directed at you. You maynever learn magical Disciplines such as Thaumaturgyand Necromancy.

--Hidden Diablerie (3pt. Merit)
	*The tell-tale black streaks of diablerie do not manifest in your aura.

--Oracular Ability (3pt. Merit)
	*You can see and interpret signs and omens. You areable to draw advice from these omens, for they provide hints of the future and warnings of the present.When the Storyteller feels that you are in position tosee an omen, you will be required to make a Perception+ Awareness roll, with the difficulty relative to howwell the omen is concealed. If successful, you may thenroll Intelligence + Occult to interpret what you haveseen; the difficulty is again relative to the complexityof the omen.

--Deceptive Aura (1pt. Merit)
	*Your aura is unnaturally bright and colorful for avampire. You register as a mortal on all attempts toread your aura.

--Healing Touch (1pt. Merit)
	*Normally vampires can only seal the wounds theyinflict from feeding by licking them. With but a touch,you can achieve the same effect, closing the puncturewounds left by drinking blood.

--Spirit Mentor (3pt. Merit)
	*You have a ghostly companion and guide. The identity and exact powers of this spirit are up to the Storyteller, but it can be called upon in difficult situationsfor help and guidance.

--Inoffensive to Animals (1pt. Merit)
	*With rare exceptions, animals usually despise theKindred. Some flee, others attack, but all dislike beingin the presence of a vampire. You have no such problem. Animals may not enjoy being in your company,but they don’t actively flee from you.

--True Love (4pt. Merit)
	*You have discovered, perhaps too late, a true love.He or she is mortal, but is the center of your existence,and inspires you to keep going in a world of darknessand despair. Whenever you suffer, the thought of yourtrue love gives you the strength to persevere. This Merit grants you one automatic success on all Willpowerrolls, which can be negated only by a botch die. Thiscan be a great gift but also a hindrance, for your truelove may require protection and occasionally rescue.

--Additional Discipline (5pt. Merit)
	*You can take one additional Discipline (Storytellerdiscretion) as if it were a Clan Discipline. All coststo learn that Discipline are paid out as if it were native to your Clan. A character cannot take this Meritmore than once, and Caitiff vampires cannot take thisMerit.

--Unbondable(5pt. Merit)
	*You are immune to being blood bound. Tremere cannot take this Merit.

--Nine Lives(6pt. Merit)
	*Fate has granted you the opportunity to come asclose to Final Death as anyone can get and still survive.When a roll occurs that would result in your death, theroll is made again. If the next roll succeeds, then youlive — and one of your nine lives is used up. If thatsubsequent roll fails, then another reroll is made, untileither a successful roll occurs or your nine lives are usedup. The Storyteller should keep careful count of howmany lives the character has remaining.

--True Faith(7pt. Merit)
	*You have a deep-seated faith in and love for God, orwhatever name you choose to call the Almighty. Youbegin the game with one point of True Faith (see thesidebar on p. 372); this Trait adds one die per point toall Willpower and Virtue rolls. You must have a Humanity of 9 or higher to choose this Merit, and if youlose even a single point, all your Faith points are lostand may be regained only when the lost Humanity isrecovered. Individuals with True Faith are capable ofperforming magical acts akin to miracles, but the exactnature of those acts are up to the Storyteller.

--Cast No Reflection (1pt. Flaw)
	*You actually cast no reflection, just like the vampiresof legend. This can have a detrimental effect when trying to pass as a human. Vampires of Clan Lasombra automatically have this Flaw (and you may be mistakenfor one of them if you possess this).

--Cold Breeze(1pt. Flaw)
	*A chill wind follows you everywhere you go. Whileit may make for dramatic entrances, this effect also discomfits mortals (+1 difficulty on all appropriate Socialrolls) and marks you as obviously supernatural. Coldwinds sweeping through executive offices or crowdednightclubs can raise all sorts of questions.

--Repulsed by Garlic(1pt. Flaw)
	*You cannot abide garlic, and the smallest whiff of itsscent will drive you from a room unless you make a successful Willpower roll (difficulty based on the strengthof the odor).

--Touch of Frost (1pt. Flaw)
	*Plants wither as you approach and die at your touch.Your touch leeches heat from living beings, as thoughyou were made of ice.

--Cursed(1-5pt. Flaw)
	*You are the recipient of a supernatural curse. Thestrength and pervasiveness of the curse depend uponhow many points you wish to incur. Examples follow:• If you pass on a secret you were entrusted with,your betrayal will come back to harm you in some way.(1 pt.)• You stutter uncontrollably when you try to describewhat you have seen or heard. (2 pts.)• Tools break or malfunction when you try to usethem. (3 pts.)• You are doomed to make enemies of those whomyou most love or admire. (4 pts.)• Every one of your accomplishments or triumphswill eventually become soiled or fail in some way. (5pts.)

--Beacon of the Unholy(2pt. Flaw)
	*You radiate palpable evil. Clergy and devout mortals know instinctively that there is something horriblywrong with you, and react accordingly.

--Deathsight(2pt. Flaw)
	*Everything appears rotted and decayed to you. Theworld appears to you as a corpse; mortals look diseasedor skeletal, buildings seem decrepit, and your fellowKindred seem to be walking, moldering cadavers. Youare at -2 difficulty to resist all rolls based on Appearance, but by the same token you are at +2 difficultyon all Perception-based rolls. In addition, you find social interaction difficult and are at +1 difficulty on allSocial-based rolls.

--Eerie Presence(2pt. Flaw)
	*Mortals have an unconscious awareness of your undead nature, which makes then anxious and ill at easein your presence. Because of this, difficulties of all rollsrelating to social interaction with mortals are increasedby two.

--Lord of the Flies(2pt. Flaw)
	*Buzzing harbingers of decay swirl around you everywhere. Their constant presence makes it difficult foryou to interact socially (+1 difficulty when appropriate) and nearly impossible to sneak up on someoneor hide effectively. The buzzing of the flies inevitablygives you away — all Stealth rolls are at +2 difficulty.

--Can’t Cross Running Water(3pt. Flaw)
	*You believe in the old folklore, and cannot cross running water unless you are at least 50 feet (15 meters)above it. Running water is considered to be any body ofwater at least two feet (half a meter) wide in any direction and not completely stagnant.

--Haunted(3pt. Flaw)
	*You are haunted by an angry and tormented spirit,most likely one of your first victims. This spirit activelyattempts to hinder you, especially when feeding, anddoes its utmost to vent its anguish upon you and anyone in your presence. The Storyteller determines theexact nature of the spirit, its powers, and whether ornot it can eventually be laid to rest.

--Repelled by Crosses(3pt. Flaw)
	*You are repelled by the sight of ordinary crosses,believing them to be symbols of holy might. When confronted by a cross, you must make a Willpower roll (difficulty 9) or flee from the symbol for the durationof the scene. If you botch the roll, not only must youattempt to flee, but the touch of the cross can cause aggravated damage (one health level of damage per turnthat the cross touches your skin). This damage cannotbe soaked, even if the vampire possesses Fortitude.

--Grip of the Damned(4pt. Flaw)
	*There is no ecstasy in your Embrace — only terrorand pain. Mortals upon whom you feed struggle andshriek while you attempt to feed, requiring you tograpple with them for as long as you wish to take theirblood. For vampires with high Humanity, this experience may require a Humanity roll, at the discretion ofthe Storyteller. Giovanni cannot take this Flaw.

--Dark Fate(5pt. Flaw)
	*You are doomed to experience Final Death or, worse,suffer eternal agony. No matter what you do, you cannot avoid this terrible fate. At some point during thechronicle, your Dark Fate will come upon you. Evenmore ghastly is the fact that you occasionally have visions of this fate, and the malaise these images inspirerequires an expenditure of a temporary Willpowerpoint to avoid, or else you lose a die from all of your actions for the remainder of the night. It is up to the Storyteller to determine the exact nature of this fate, andwhen it will occur. This is a difficult Flaw to roleplay;ironically, though it may seem as though it removesall free will, the knowledge of one’s death can be quiteliberating.

--Light-Sensitive (5pt. Flaw)
	*You are even more sensitive to sunlight than othervampires are. Sunlight causes double normal damage,and the light of the moon can cause lethal damage in amanner similar to the sun, though it must shine directly upon you. Even bright lights hurt your eyes, requiring the use of sunglasses. Followers of Set and relatedbloodlines cannot take this Flaw, as they already havea worse version of it.


